A Democratic Congressman has caused controversy by suggesting Americans could use the Second Amendment to resist President Trump.

Rep. Tom Suozzi made the bizarre comments during a town hall event last week.

Its really a matter of putting public pressure on the president, Suozzi said during the March 12 event in Huntington. This is where the Second Amendment comes in quite frankly, because you know, what if the president was to ignore the courts? What would you do? What would we do?

A member of the audience then asked, Whats the second amendment? to which Suozzi responded, The second amendment is the right to bear arms.

This video is incredibly disturbing. Its surreal to watch a sitting member of Congress suggest that his constituents should take up arms against the President of the United States, National Republican Campaign Committee spokesman Chris Martin told the New York Post.

When pressed, Suozzis political advisor Kim Devlin denied that the Congressman was advocating for an armed insurrection.

However, the Suozzi campaign framed the remarks in the context of a quote by Thomas Jefferson that called for armed resistance.

What country can preserve its liberties if their rulers are not warned from time to time that their people preserve the spirit of resistance. Let them take arms, the quote said.

This is not the first time that a prominent public figure has invoked the threat of violence against President Trump.

During an appearance on CNN last year, counterterrorism analyst and former CIA agent Philip Mudd said on air the governments gonna kill Donald Trump because he disrespected the deep state.

In comments made during the Aspen Security Forum, former CIA Director John Brennan also said that if the White House tries to fire special counsel Robert Mueller, executive branch officials should refuse to carry out that order, which is effectively a call for a coup.

Some accused Brennan of making veiled threats towards Trump again over the weekend after the former head of Obamas drone program tweeted that he wouldnt allow the president to destroy the country.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.