Maxine Waters ripped into the Democratic leadership Sunday, saying that their criticism of her call for Trump officials to be harassed, even at their homes, was down to the fact that Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer will do anything to hold onto power.

MSNBCs Joy Reid played Waters a clip of Schumer calling Waters calls un-American, to which Waters responded that she was surprised by the criticism:

Im surprised that Chuck Schumer, you know, reached into the other house (of Congress) to do that. Ive not quite seen that done before, but one of the things I recognize, being an elected official, is in the final analysis, leadership like Chuck Schumer will do anything that they think is necessary to protect their leadership, Waters declared.

Waters then attempted to deflect away from the criticism again, returning to her obsession with denouncing the President.

And so, what I have to do, is not focus on them. Ive got to keep the focus on the children and the fact that this administration is endangering children in the worse kind of way, she said referring to US immigration policy.

Waters also repeated claims that President Trump is violent and that he supports violence.

I was blessed with courage. And I was blessed with the kind of strength that does not allow me to be intimidated by the likes of Donald Trump. Water said, adding You played several clips showing how violent he is and how he supports violence and why he calls other people names.

All of this extraordinary, outrageous activity of the President of the United States the likes of which weve never seen before. So I am prepared for him. Again, Im not intimidated by him. I think he does not deserve to be the President of the United States. Waters continued.

Just last week, Waters claimed that the Democratic leadership had not criticized her at all, saying that They [Pelosi and Schumer] dont really say Im out of line. What they try to do is find a way to talk about civility without attacking me or anybody else.

Over the weekend, Waters delivered another call for harassment, telling a crowd in Los Angeles Donald Trump, we are sick and tired of you! We have no fear! You will not intimidate us! Were coming right at you.

Waters claimed she had received death threats, saying there are those who are talking about censuring me, talking about kicking me out of Congress, talking about shooting me, talking about hanging me.

All I have to say is this, if you shoot me you better shoot straight, theres nothing like a wounded animal, she yelled.