As we digest and unpack the DOJ Inspector Generals 500-page report on the FBIs conduct during the Hillary Clinton email  matter, damning quotes from the OIGs findings have begun to circulate, leaving many to wonder exactly how Inspector General Michael Horowitz was able to conclude:

Were sorry, that just doesnt comport with reality whatsoever. And it really feels like the OIG report may have had a different conclusion at some point. Just read IG Horowitzs own assessment that These texts are Indicative of a biased state of mind but even more seriously, implies a willingness to take official action to impact the Presidential candidates electoral prospects.

Of course, todays crown jewel is a previously undisclosed exchange between Peter Strzok and Lisa Page in which Page asks (Trumps) not ever going to become president, right? Right?! to which Strzok replies No. No hes not. Well stop it.

Nevermind the fact that  the FBI Director, who used  personal emails for work purposes, tasked Strzok, who used personal emails for work purposes, to investigate Hillary Clintons use of personal emails for work purposes . Of course, we know it goes far deeper than that...

The Wall Street Journals Kimberley Strassel also had plenty to say in a Twitter thread:

1) Dont believe anyone who claims Horowitz didnt find bias. He very carefully says that he found no documentary evidence that bias produced specific investigatory decisions. Thats different 2) It means he didnt catch anyone doing anything so dumb as writing down that they took a specific step to aid a candidate. You know, like: Lets give out this Combetta immunity deal so nothing comes out that will derail Hillary for President. 3) But he in fact finds bias everywhere. The examples are shocking and concerning, and he devotes entire sections to them. And he very specifically says in the summary that they cast a cloud on the entire investigations credibility. Thats pretty damning. 4) Meanwhile this same cast of characters who the IG has now found to have made a hash of the Clinton investigation and who demonstrate such bias, seamlessly moved to the Trump investigation. And were supposed to think they got that one right? 5) Also dont believe anyone who says this is just about Comey and his instances of insubordination. (Though they are bad enough.) This is an indictment broadly of an FBI culture that believes itself above the rules it imposes on others. 6) People failing to adhere to their recusals (Kadzik/McCabe). Lynch hanging with Bill. Staff helping Comey conceal details of presser from DOJ bosses. Use of personal email and laptops. Leaks. Accepting gifts from media. Agent affairs/relationships. 7)It also contains stunning examples of incompetence. Comey explains that he wasnt aware the Weiner laptop was big deal because he didnt know Weiner was married to Abedin? Then they sit on it a month, either cuz it fell through cracks (wow) or were more obsessed w/Trump 8) And I can still hear the echo of the howls from when Trump fired Comey. Still waiting to hear the apologies now that this report has backstopped the Rosenstein memo and the obvious grounds for dismissal.

So, lets review more of the exchanges which had no bearing on the unbiased report:

In one shocking exchange between two unnamed FBI employees which we assume to be Strzok and Page, Attorney 1 asks Attorney 2 Is it making you rethink your commitment to the Trump administration? to which Attorney 2 replied Hell no, adding Viva le resistance.

Some of Strzok and Pages greatest hits:

August 16, 2015, Strzok: [Bernie Sanders is] an idiot like Trump. Figure they cancel each other out.

February 12, 2016, Page:  Im no prude, but Im really appalled by this. So you dont have to go looking (in case you hadnt heard),

 Trump called him the p-word. The man has no dignity or class. [texted the FBI agents having an extramarital affair] He simply cannot be president.

February 12, 2016, Strzok:  Oh, [Trumps] abysmal.  I keep hoping the charade will end and people will just dump him.  The problem, then, is Rubio will likely lose to Cruz.  The Republican party is in utter shambles. When was the last competitive ticket they offered?

March 3, 2016, Page: Also did you hear [Trump] make a comment about the size of his d*ck earlier?  This man cannot be president.

March 12, 2016:  Page forwarded an article about a far right candidate in Texas, stating, [W]hat the f is wrong with people?  Strzok replied, That Texas article is depressing as hell.  But answers how we could end up with President trump.

March 16, 2016, Page: I cannot believe Donald Trump is likely to be an actual, serious candidate for president.

June 11, 2016, Strzok: They fully deserve to go, and demonstrate the absolute bigoted nonsense of Trump.

July 19, 2016, Page: Trump barely spoke, but the first thing out of his mouth was were going to win soooo big.The whole thing is like living in a bad dream.

July 21, 2016, Strzok: Trump is a disaster. I have no idea how destabilizing his Presidency would be.

August 26, 2016, Strzok:  Just went to a southern Virginia Walmart. I could SMELL the Trump support....

September 26, 2016, Page:  Page sent an article to Strzok entitled, Why Donald Trump Should Not Be President, stating, Did you read this?  Its scathing.  And Im scared.

October 19, 2016, Strzok:  I am riled up.  Trump is a fucking idiot, is unable to provide a coherent answer.

Strzok also refers to having unfinished business and a need to fix it  while also admitting that theres no big there, there presumably regarding the Trump-Russia investigation.

While there are many more damning revelations in the OIG report, one would think that given the above, there was more than enough evidence to, at minimum, launch a special counsel  especially when you consider the weak sauce used to justify Muellers special counsel probe.