President Trump cast his support for Mitt Romneys run to fill Orrin Hatchs soon-to-be vacated Senate seat in a Monday night tweet.

He will make a great Senator and worthy successor to @OrrinHatch, and has my full support and endorsement! tweeted Trump (or whoever had his phone) on Monday evening.

Romney and Trump have a hate-hate relationship, notably trading barbs during the 2016 election, with Romney calling Trump a phony and a fraud to a crowed of nearly 700 at the University of Utah, and Trump calling Romney a disloyal choke artist and failed candidate who was eager for Trumps endorsement during his unsuccessful 2012 Presidential bid.

After Trump won the election, he trolled Romney with the possibility of the Utah politician becoming Secretary of State  only to give the job to Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson.

More recently, Romney criticized Trump for his comments regarding the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, VA, as well as the Presidents endorsement of Alabama Senate candidate Roy More. Romney also spoke out against Trumps alleged comment referring to Haiti and other African nations as shithole countries.

Before Hillary Clinton and the DNC paid Fusion GPS to assemble the infamous Trump-Russia dossier, Billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Singer  who donated $1 million to Romneys Restore Our Future Super PAC, and manages a portion of Romneys more than $200 million fortune  initially hired Fusion GPS for anti-Trump opposition research through his news organization, the Washington Free Beacon.

Of note, Singers Free Beacon was originally part of a 504(c)(4) tax-exempt organization called the Center for American Freedom  whose original board of directors included never-Trump neocon Bill Kristol. Kristols father, Irving, is known as the godfather of neoconservatism, and was a self-described member in good standing of the Young Peoples Socialist League, which was, according to the Senior Kristol, commonly; and correctly, designated as Trotskyist (Excerpt from Memoires of a Trotskyist by Irving Kristol). For what its worth, Bernie Sanders was also a member of the YPSL.

From a November, 2017 interview with Deseret News, Kristol said the following of Trump and Romney:

Deseret News: As a conservative critical of President Trump, what would you say is the right way to fight or engage him?

Bill Kristol:  Recruit candidates and back them effectively and make the case for policies more along the Bush/McCain/Romney track.

As one can see, Romney deeply ingrained in the incestuous circle of neocon never-Trumpers who fought tooth and nail against his nomination, and have resisted Trump ever since he won.

Were sure Trumps endorsement of Romney is part of a multi-dimensional board game of some sort.