Manchester City are set to complete the signing of Leicester winger Riyad Mahrez within days. The 27-year-old Algerian international will join the Premier League champions in a deal worth around 60m. (Manchester Evening News)

Robert Lewandowski has told Bayern Munich he wants to leave the club this summer. The 29-year-old Polish striker has been linked with moves to Chelsea, Paris St-Germain and Real Madrid. (Bild - in German)

Manchester United will offer Real Madrid 140m euros (121.8m) for 28-year-old Welsh midfielder Gareth Bale. (AS - in Spanish)

United and Chelsea are interested in Barcelona's Spanish 29-year-old left-back Jordi Alba. (Sport - in Spanish)

Maurizio Sarri has told Chelsea he wants to sign Inter Milan's Argentine centre-forward Mauro Icardi, 25, if he is made Blues boss. (Corriere dello Sport via Metro)

The president of Italian third-tier side Rimini FC has offered to take Liverpool keeper Loris Karius on a year-long loan deal as a gift for his birthday, which is 22 June, so the 24-year-old German can "rediscover calm and his self-belief" after his Champions League final disaster. (Rimini FC)

Roma will demand 90m euros (79m) for goalkeeper Alisson and plan to resist Liverpool's advances for the 25-year-old Brazilian until after the World Cup. (Guardian)

West Ham are in talks with Barcelona with a view to signing their 22-year-old Brazilian centre-back Marlon Santos. (Mundo Deportivo - in Spanish)

The Hammers are also keen to bring Genoa's 26-year-old Italian defender Armando Izzo to the club. (Sky Sports)

Real Madrid are favourites to beat Arsenal to the signature of Atletico Madrid's Uruguayan defender Jose Gimenez, and are set to activate the 23-year-old's 53m release clause. (Talksport)

The Gunners are weighing up a move for Sampdoria midfielder Lucas Torreira. The 22-year-old Uruguay international has a 25m euro (21m) release clause. (Calciomercato via Mirror)

New Arsenal boss Unai Emery is set for a backroom shake-up that could see Steve Bould and Jens Lehmann leave the Emirates. (Sun)

Inter Milan will have to pay 40m euros (34.8m) for Barcelona's 25-year-old Brazilian midfielder Rafinha, who was on loan with the Serie A club last season. (La Gazzetta dello Sport - in Italian)

Lazio president Claudio Lotito said he turned down a 110m euros (95.75m) bid for 23-year-old Serb midfielder Sergej Milinkovic-Savic. (Football Italia)

Tottenham fear that their hopes of signing Fulham's 18-year-old English midfielder Ryan Sessegnon will be damaged by Cottagers' owner Shahid Khan's bid to buy Wembley. (Evening Standard)

Meanwhile, Spurs are keeping a watch on developments concerning Southampton's English goalkeeper Alex McCarthy, 28. (Mirror)

Burnley want to re-sign English forward Jay Rodriguez from West Brom. The 28-year-old spent five years at Turf Moor before moving to Southampton in 2012. (Times)

Manchester City's English midfielder Phil Foden, who turns 18 on Monday, will be offered a new contract and will not be sent out on loan next season. (Telegraph)

Bournemouth's 26-year-old Norwegian striker Joshua King says he is unhappy with how his manager Eddie Howe used him last season. (VG via Independent)

The Magpies could also swoop for Middlesbrough's 22-year-old Spanish winger Adama Traore. (Yorkshire Post)

Leeds United's Swedish striker Marcus Antonsson, 27, is unclear about his future at the Championship club. (Fotboll Direkt via Yorkshire Evening Post)