Michelle Wolf knew exactly what she was doing when she hosted the White House Correspondents Dinner. But in scrambling to repair the scorched earth her set left in its wake, the White House Correspondents Association has made it clear that it has no idea what its doing at all.

True to the searing comedic style she honed on Late Night With Seth Meyers, The Daily Show, and her own HBO special (sarcastically titled Nice Lady), Wolf ripped into her subjects without mercy and with a smile. Her 20-minute set took aim at the media, President Donald Trump, his policies, and administration officials like Sarah Huckabee Sanders  who, unlike Trump, was sitting mere feet away.

Almost immediately after Wolf finished her set  with a wry reminder that Flint doesnt have clean water, no less  the outrage cycle went into overdrive. Journalists and Trump administration officials alike decried the routine as inappropriately harsh, a disgrace, or, in the words of President Trump himself, an embarrassment. Think pieces wondered if Wolf had killed the dinner for good; the Hill has announced it wont attend the dinner anymore unless it undergoes major reforms. The White House Correspondents Association itself released a statement saying the routine didnt embody the spirit of its mission.

But Wolf has stood firm, saying that she wouldnt change a word.

In the room, Wolfs jokes were met with an awkward mix of laughs, disbelieving gasps, applause, and silence. Her jokes dripped such unsparing disdain that I instinctively shifted away from my screen while watching it, as if getting too close to her spitting fire would singe my eyebrows clean off.

But this kind of shock is exactly the reaction Wolf was aiming for  not to mention exactly what the White House Correspondents Association was courting by hiring her in the first place.

Granted, her material was often filthy. Her jokes about pussy hats and Trumps reported past romancing of porn actors were apparently explicit enough that C-SPAN radio reportedly cut away from her routine halfway through instead of running the risk of indecency fines. But in between those jokes, Wolf was admirably blunt about some of the nastier issues that have plagued the Trump era and its accompanying news coverage.

She not only called out the fact (fact!) that this administration routinely depends on lies to achieve its goals but also pointed out that the media has profited from the seemingly endless supply of scandals Trumps campaign and presidency hath wrought.

When asked about the outsize reaction to her set, Wolf told NPR the Monday after that she stands behind her set because she didnt want to cater to the room of politicians and pundits. As for the apparent shock and dismay that she went as hard as she did, Wolf added, I think sometimes they look at a woman and they think, Oh, shell be nice. If youve seen any of my comedy, you know ... Im not.

Wolf obviously holds disdain for the Trump administration, its exclusionary policies, and the people, from Huckabee Sanders to CNN producers, who make excuses for them all. Shes also a comedian who was hired to do not just a standup routine but a roast  and punchlines that take aim at anyone and everyone is whats always been on the roast menu.

Stephen Colberts famous 2006 set  in which he skewered George W. Bush while in his character as a right-wing pundit  is remembered as daring now. But at the time, he got a world of grief for being too rude about Bushs aggressive foreign policies and supposed intelligence level. In 2009, Wanda Sykes drew criticism for a joke about Rush Limbaugh being too stoned on Oxycontin to show up as the 20th 9/11 hijacker. In 2011, both host Seth Meyers and President Barack Obama took detours during their routines to blast Trump for pushing the ridiculous birther conspiracies about Obamas birthplace while he sat stone-faced in the audience.

But this year, the second in a row that President Trump boycotted in his ongoing war with the press, seems to be a breaking point.

Heres what Margaret Talev, president of the WHCA, said about Wolf ahead of the dinner:

And heres what Talev said after, once the backlash started and it became clear that Wolfs feminist edge might have cut too deep for some:

Talev and the WHCA backtracked so hard that they couldnt even bring themselves to use Wolfs name as they threw her under the bus. Despite setting up the evening as a celebration of the First Amendment and hiring Wolf to bring her truth-to-power style to Washington, the organization folded immediately under pressure.

Its telling that the aggrieved journalists who dismissed Wolfs routine as cruel focused on her complimenting Huckabee Sanders for achieving a perfect smokey eye with the ashes of facts rather than her telling the media that what no one in this room wants to admit is that Trump has helped all of you. In their haste to condemn Wolfs set as too harsh, some journalists revealed just how much they want to remain on the administrations good side  or at least be able to plead objectivity  in order to cover it.

If the #WHCD dinner did anything tonight, it made the chasm between journalists and those who dont trust us even wider, the Associated Presss Meg Kinnard tweeted to explain her distaste  and honestly, she might be right. But that sentiment also ignores a crucial element of Wolfs set: It was true. That should count for something at an event honoring an institution that insists it prizes the truth above all else, but apparently, not so much.

So what does the WHCA actually want? Does it want people to speak truth to power, or to feign civility between the free press and an administration that actively fights it? It cant have it both ways  and so, apparently, its chosen the path of least resistance.