Everything is a witch hunt. President Donald Trump will tell anybody who will listen that Robert Muellers investigation into the Trump campaigns Russia connections (and other alleged misdeeds) is a political witch hunt. The single greatest political witch hunt, in fact.

The New York Times publishes the list of questions Mueller wants to ask Trump? With a clear interest in whether Trump obstructed justice? Witch hunt.

This is sort of Trumps thing.

Hes not alone. Last week, when Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens was facing allegations of horrendous sexual misconduct, he unsubtly said it was exactly like whats happening with the witch hunts in Washington, D.C. The critics of #MeToo  often but not always men  have compared the campaign to eradicate sexual abuse to a witch hunt.

If you want people to believe youre wrongfully accused, the subject of malicious scrutiny on the part of your enemies, you cry that youre the target of a witch hunt.

Trump didnt pick this phrase out of thin air. Politically, this goes back at least to McCarthyism and Watergate. The Nixon White House also claimed he was the subject of a witch hunt. Critics of Sen. Joe McCarthys insidious anti-communist probes called them witch hunts. Back in those days, playwright Arthur Miller made the subtext text with his play The Crucible, an anti-McCarthy allegory set during the Salem witch trials of the 1690s.

Which is where our story really begins. In the modern setting, witch hunt is a useful defense because people living in the 21st century know that the witches of 17th-century Salem were almost certainly innocent and, therefore, that the persecutions that led to 20 deaths were unjust. Its a hyperbolic if undeniably powerful rhetorical device to claim ones innocence.

There is also, once you stop to think about it, something distasteful about men in power  particularly two men credibly accused of sexual assault  using a term that harks back to an era in history in which a patriarchal society wrongfully persecuted (mostly) women.

Weve turned the expression on its head. Traditionally a witchcraft charge amounted to powerful men charging powerless women with a phony crime. Now it is powerful men screeching that they are being charged with phony crimes, Stacey Schiff, who wrote a 2015 book about Salem called The Witches, told Vox over email. Unfair targeting is the only thing the two have in common, and even that is debatable.

What exactly caused the mass hysteria in Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692 and 1693 is still a subject that divides historians and others who study the witch trials. What we know for sure is that between 1692 and 1693, 19 people were hanged, and one crushed to death, ostensibly for the civil crime of practicing malevolent witchcraft, after an outbreak of mass hysteria. They had all maintained their innocence  with the exception of Tituba, a local enslaved woman, whose confession may have been tortured out of her.

The majority of the Salem witch trials didnt actually happen in Salem Town  what is known as Salem today  but in Salem Village, an inland hamlet that was renamed Danvers in 1752.

Mary Beth Norton, a Cornell University professor who wrote 2007s In the Devils Snare with an eye toward explaining the crisis in its historical and political context, connected the hysteria over the witch trials and the actions taken by village elders to Native American attacks on the New England settlers.

She summarized her understanding of the witch trials to Vox like this:

I argue in my book that the judges at the trials, who were also the military leaders of the colony, used the search for witches as a means of deflecting their own responsibility for the disasters then afflicting the colony. But as they genuinely believed in the existence of witches (that was the accepted opinion at the time), we cant say that they manufactured a belief in witches for political reasons. Still, the search for witchcraft was very beneficial to them politically, until it all came crashing down on their heads after about nine months when skepticism about how the trials were being conducted prevailed in the colony. People didnt stop believing in the existence of witches, but they stopped believing that the Massachusetts judicial system was successfully uncovering and convicting them.

As Norton emphasized, its simplistic to think of the Salem trials as purely political: Christians living in New England in the 1690s absolutely believed that witches were real and that they could serve as consorts of the devil to wreak havoc in their town.

But the relevance to our modern understanding of a witch hunt is eerie. Sinister authorities using the specter of witches to protect their own interests. The deteriorating faith in political institutions. Right from the start, witch hunts were imbued with much of the meaning that would make them such a powerful rhetorical tool in 2018.

As a result, Salem has held a prominent place in Americas political imagination ever since.

As Texas Techs Gretchen Adams chronicled in her book The Specter of Salem, the witch trials served several political purposes in the intervening centuries. In the 1790s, textbooks would use Salem as the quintessential example of Americas less enlightened past, a history the new nation was abandoning as it embraced Enlightenment ideals in its early years.

During the 1830s, during a religious revival known as the Second Great Awakening, which rejected the Enlightenment, critics would compare those new religious orders to the Salem elders, seeking to remind people of the dangers of unchecked fanaticism. During the Civil War, Southerners would cite the witch trials to attack the Union for its supposed irrationality in persecuting the war.

But for modern politics, the turning point seems to have been Arthur Millers 1953 play The Crucible. A retelling of the trials, the play was a coded indictment of the anti-communist hysteria of the 1940s and 50s. Miller heavily implied that the accusers and magistrates of Salem were motivated by a combination of fear and greed, including a desire to seize the lands of the accused. The story of Salem, for Miller, was the story of any mass panic  how self-interested humans use fear and panic to stoke witch hunts for personal gain.

Its a 20th-century term that comes into use during the Cold War. There was no single, directed, witch-identifying force in Americas 17th-century prosecutions, Schiff said. In that sense, Salem does not actually constitute a hunt. Its more a panic, or an epidemic, or a societal delusion.

As Voxs Dara Lind noted previously, Richard Nixon (or his staff) invoked Salem as the Watergate investigation was gaining steam:

Voxs Lind wasnt the only one to connect Nixon and Watergate to Trumps use of the phrase. Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward cited Trumps laments of a witch hunt as they described the eerily similar confrontation that Trump is having with Mueller and that Nixon had with special prosecutor Archibald Cox.

On the one hand, Trump comparing the investigation into his campaign to a crisis that left 20 people dead in the 17th century is clearly ridiculous  there is much more evidence in the criminal indictments, the court-sanctioned wiretaps, and the consensus of Republican and Democratic investigators for Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election than there is for witchcraft  and rather unsavory.

As for Greitens, who is so transparently drafting off Trumps tactics, his use of the term might be even more galling: This is a man accused of coercing a woman into sexual acts and then threatening to blackmail her if she talked.

There is something twisted, misdirected, and vaguely demented in the cries of witch hunt, Schiff said. Many American women (and a handful of men) did protest their innocence. They were not witches, though the courts decided they were; they hanged all the same. None ever cried witch hunt.

But Trumps never-ending laments of witch hunt! cant just be dismissed. They serve an important function for the president: discrediting the Mueller investigation.

It isnt an accident that Trumps most influential allies in the media, like Foxs Sean Hannity (a man also connected to Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, whose current presence on the national stage arose from alleged payouts to women on Trumps behalf), deploy the exact same rhetoric.

For now, a solid majority of Americans support the Mueller investigation: 69 percent, according to the most recent Washington Post/ABC News poll. Screaming witch hunt didnt save Nixon either  not that we should necessarily believe the Mueller probe will end the same way Watergate did.

But at the same time, Muellers investigation is underwater with Republicans: Only 43 percent support the probe, while 51 percent disapprove of it. Trumps witch hunt claims have found a particular audience, it seems  and that audience is responsible for the majorities that currently control both chambers of Congress, whose leaders claim they do not want Trump to fire Mueller but at the same time have refused so far to take any steps to protect the prosecutor.

Investigating potential crimes against the country shouldnt be a partisan issue. But its become that way. Trump  and the screams of witch hunt!  have helped make it so.