The release of former FBI Director James Comeys new book has plunged the United States of America into yet another round of speculation about whether the Russian government taped Donald Trump watching prostitutes urinate on a hotel bed in Moscow in 2013.

The utterly bizarre allegation  which became public by way of Christopher Steeles infamous dossier  has never been confirmed. Indeed, beyond the hearsay of a few anonymous people, we have no evidence that it happened, and Trump himself has vociferously disputed it.

But while promoting his book this week, Comey told ABC News that he thought there was at least a possibility that it really took place. I honestly never thought these words would come out of my mouth, but I dont know whether the current President of the United States was with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow in 2013, he said. Its possible, but I dont know. His book also claims Trump was fixated on rebutting the accusation in private, and that he brought it up to Comey on four separate occasions.

Now, the question of whether Donald Trump hired prostitutes to urinate on a bed five years ago does not, in and of itself, seem important to American public policy in any way.

Yet the pee tape claim instantly overshadowed all the other Trump-Russia allegations in the Steele dossier, for a few reasons. First, it purports to explain Trumps unusually pro-Russian and pro-Putin views with the idea that the Russian government has kompromat on him  blackmail material that he knows about and is seeking to prevent them from releasing. Second, its salacious, unusual, and sexual (and, to many, funny). And third, theres the promise that documentary evidence exists ... somewhere.

However, there are also many reasons to think the pee tape story could be complete bullshit.

For one, we have actually learned more about Steeles sourcing for the tale, and it doesnt inspire a ton of confidence. Then, of course, there was the revelation that Steeles research was ultimately funded by Hillary Clintons campaign and the DNC, which raises some obvious questions about the projects objectivity.

Perhaps most revealingly, though, even Steele and his allies have confessed some doubts about the pee tape tale to reporters they trust  a new book claims that Steeles business partner says his dossiers claims were not meant to be definitive, and that Steele himself has said theres only a fifty-fifty chance this particular claim is correct. Yet still, were talking about it, once again.

In April 2016, Clinton campaign and DNC campaign lawyer Marc Elias retained the firm Fusion GPS to research Donald Trump and his ties to Russia. Fusion then retained the services of Christopher Steele, a retired MI6 officer based in London with Russian contacts, to look into the matter.

Steeles dossier of research would eventually comprise 17 reports written over a six-month period. These reports cite several (anonymous) sources of information but on the whole tell a story of years-long ties between Trump and the Russian regime, and a conspiracy to influence the election.

The pee tape allegation is in the very first of those reports, dated June 20, 2016. Here it is:

So the allegation is that in 2013, Trump hired a number of prostitutes to perform a golden showers (urination) show in front of him, aimed at defiling the bed of the Ritz-Carltons presidential suite, because Barack and Michelle Obama had previously slept in that bed. (Note that the claim is not that Trump participated in this display, but rather that he requested and watched it.)

Then the implication  although its not explicitly stated  is that Russias intelligence service, the FSB, recorded all this with microphones and concealed cameras so it could later be used for kompromat and blackmail material over Trump if necessary.

As the saying goes: Whoa ... if true.

First, theres Christopher Steele himself, and his own reputation. Hes a former MI6 spy who spent a few years based in Moscow in the early 1990s, and later held a top position at MI6s Russia desk back in London. In 2009, he left the service and set up his own private research firm, Orbis. There he worked for corporate clients and at one point the English Football Association (to investigate Russia-related FIFA corruption). Hed helped out the FBI on past investigations, and his contacts there are said to view him highly.

Second, Trump was in the right place at the right time  he traveled to Moscow for the 2013 Miss Universe pageant and stayed for one night at the Ritz-Carlton. That in itself doesnt give the allegation more credibility  Trumps trip was high-profile and had been public knowledge years before Steele began his research  but, inconveniently for Trump, it makes it impossible to conclusively disprove the allegation.

Theres also Trumps bodyguard Keith Schillers later testimony that a Russian business associate offered to send five women up to Trumps room during this very trip  though he says he and Trump turned down the offer. Schiller also testified that later that night, as Trump was headed back to his hotel room, he and Trump discussed that earlier offer again in passing. Schiller says this was a joking conversation, but it certainly raises an eyebrow that he admits there was indeed talk of multiple prostitutes coming to Trumps room during the trip.

Third, there was, of course, the Russian interference with the 2016 presidential election that led to a still-ongoing investigation. Between the hacking and leaking of prominent Democrats emails, an apparent Russian fake news and propaganda operation to help Trump, and the multiple connections between Trump advisers and Russian government-tied figures (Paul Manafort, Rick Gates, Michael Flynn, Carter Page, George Papadopoulos), and Trumps own idiosyncratically pro-Russia and pro-Putin views, there was a whole lot of smoke suggesting something weird was going on between Trump and Russia.

Steeles dossier purported to offer shocking new details to explain all this, which included the golden showers tale, but went far beyond it to allege a direct conspiracy on matters like the email hackings. Beyond that, there have been many previous incidents in which real or fake kompromat sex tapes seem to have been released to embarrass critics of the Russian government. So the claim that the Kremlin would at least try to get a Trump sex tape didnt seem self-evidently absurd.

Finally, the US intelligence community chose to take Steeles research seriously, and leading political figures have as well. After Trump won the election. Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) handed Comey a copy of Steeles dossier in a one-on-one meeting. But the FBI had already been looking into its claims for months beforehand, because Steele himself had reached out to them during the summer. President Obama was briefed on the dossier, including the pee tape claim, in January 2017. A few days later, so was President-elect Trump. And not long after that, BuzzFeed News posted the dossier, which let the public see it too.

A recent profile by the New Yorkers Jane Mayer describes how Steeles firm Orbis does its research  essentially, it pays collectors elsewhere to try to ferret out information from other people who may be unaware of whats going on. Mayer writes:

For the golden showers story in particular, the dossier mentions three sources who Steele claims had heard about what happened in the hotel room, and one other who claimed more general knowledge of Russian government kompromat on Trump.

Luke Harding, who interviewed Steele and his associates for his book Collusion, writes that only one of Steeles sources on Trump knew of Steeles own involvement  the others were instead speaking to his collectors. It also isnt known what methods Steele used to vet the second- and thirdhand information he received.

The biggest reason to doubt the claim is, well, its total lack of evidence or even firsthand testimony.

None of Steeles sources are described as having seen this golden showers display. Instead, the three sources are all saying this is something they heard had taken place. We have no idea who they heard it from. And its obviously quite possible they heard a false rumor or baseless gossip. Some people enjoy telling tall tales, spreading gossip, and making it seem like theyre in the know with little attention to factual accuracy or even outright fabulism.

Then there is the problem of Source D, the main source for the golden showers story  who has reportedly been publicly identified. He is said to be Sergei Millian, a Belarusian-American businessman who was unknowingly gossiping with one of Steeles collectors. Yet by some accounts, Millian wildly exaggerated his closeness to the Trump Organization. As Michael Isikoff and David Corn write in their book Russian Roulette:

Now, the dossier does claim that two other sources  Source E and Source F, the latter of whom was a Ritz-Carlton employee  are said to have confirmed Millians golden showers story. Still, Steele gives no details on what, exactly, they confirmed, or on whether their accounts differed on any points. If it is indeed a baseless rumor, they may have just heard the same baseless rumor.

Theres a broader issue too: Even though weve learned a lot about the Trump team and Russia in recent months, the vast bulk of the Steele dossiers specific claims remain unverified and uncorroborated. Steele claimed there was a years-long intelligence exchange between Trump and Russian authorities, that the Trump campaign made a deal with the Russian government over the DNC email leak, that Trump adviser Carter Page dictated the timing of that leak, and that Trump lawyer Michael Cohen had paid off Russian hackers. None of those claims have been shown to be true, and obviously the claims about sexual kompromat remain unverified as well.

Finally, it is important to keep in mind that even Steele himself wont vouch for every claim in his dossier. Harding reports that Steele told friends he thought his dossier was 70 to 90 percent accurate. Yet Isikoff and Corn report that hes been giving the golden showers claim even lower odds than that:

As part of his denials of any collusion between his team and Russia, Trump has also tried to specifically rebut Steeles claim about the golden showers show.

At a press conference the day after Steeles dossier was posted, Trump argued that he is hyper-aware that there could be cameras in foreign hotel rooms, implying he would never have been so reckless as Steeles sources claim. Im also very much of a germaphobe, by the way, believe me, he added.

Now, in fired FBI Director James Comeys new book, Comey mentions four other times he says the president complained about the story to him in private.

Comey implies in some snarky narration that he found Trumps denials illogical and unconvincing (I imagined the presidential suite of the Ritz-Carlton in Moscow was large enough for a germaphobe to be at a safe distance from the activity). He also revived the claim by saying that, sure, maybe it did happen:

But if Comey has reasons to grant the pee tape claim any validity beyond what we know, he doesnt provide them.

Back in February, the New York Timess Matthew Rosenberg reported that during a National Security Agency effort to buy back some of its stolen cyberweapons from a shadowy Russian known to be tied to cybercriminals, the Russian claimed he had a video of Mr. Trump consorting with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel room in 2013.

He showed off a 15-second clip of a video showing a man in a room talking to two women. But no audio could be heard on the video, and there was no way to verify if the man was Mr. Trump, Rosenberg wrote. The NSA paid the guy $100,000 but ended up concluding he didnt have the cyberweapons they truly wanted and wondering whether the whole thing was just a setup by Russian intelligence.

All that is a good metaphor for the place of the pee tape in our discourse.

The claim itself is seemingly unfalsifiable but also extremely unlikely to ever be confirmed. And it could well be a silly distraction from far stronger claims of Russian interference and Trump-Russia ties, or from other issues entirely that should get more attention. It could be total bullshit.

But if it is real ...

Well, it probably isnt. Come on. Right?