The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh will not attend the christening of Prince Louis later today.

Buckingham Palace said the decision was taken by the Queen and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge "some time ago" and it is not due to health reasons.

Prince Louis will be christened in a private ceremony in the Chapel Royal at St James's Palace.

The 11-week-old will be baptised by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Reverend Justin Welby.

The ceremony, which begins at 16:00 BST, will be the first time the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and their three children have been seen together.

The Queen, 92, is travelling back from Norfolk on Monday and has a busy week ahead, with celebrations marking the centenary of the RAF on Tuesday and US President Donald Trump's visit to Windsor on Friday.

Prince Louis' six godparents are Nicholas van Cutsem, Guy Pelly, Harry Aubrey-Fletcher, Lady Laura Meade, Mrs Robert Carter and Lucy Middleton.

They are all friends or family of the Cambridges, who also picked friends and confidantes as Prince George's and Princess Charlotte's godparents.

Guy Pelly: The son of wealthy Kent landowners, Mr Pelly used to own several London nightclubs. He is a close friend of both Prince William and Prince Harry - helping to organise the former's stag do - and was dubbed the pair's "court jester". He has been banned from driving three times, including twice for drink-driving and once for speeding.

Nicholas van Cutsem: He is a British Army major and a close friend of both Prince William and Harry. His daughter, Florence, was a bridesmaid at the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's royal wedding in May.

Lady Laura Meade: Also one of Princess Charlotte's godparents, Lady Meade is the wife of Prince William's close friend and fellow Etonian James Meade, known as "Meadey". She is the daughter of the 8th Earl of Romney.

Hannah Carter: Formerly Hannah Gillingham, she went to school with Kate at Marlborough College. She is the wife of Robert Carter, who belongs to a family of wealthy landowners.

Lucy Middleton: She is the Duchess of Cambridge's cousin and a solicitor.

Harry Aubrey-Fletcher: He went to Ludgrove School and Eton with William and his father is the Lord Lieutenant of Buckinghamshire.

Newlyweds the Duke and Duchess of Sussex will attend the ceremony, along with Kate's pregnant sister Pippa Middleton and their brother James Middleton.

Prince Louis' grandfather, the Prince of Wales, and the Duchess of Cornwall will also attend the ceremony.

Prince Louis will wear the same christening gown used by his siblings.

The cream lace and white satin robe is a replica of the robe made for Queen Victoria's eldest daughter in 1841, which is now too delicate to be worn. The new version was made by the Queen's dresser, Angela Kelly.

According to tradition, water from the River Jordan will be used.

Following the 40-minute traditional religious service, guests will attend a private tea with slices of christening cake, which is a tier taken from the duke and duchess' wedding cake.

Matt Holyoak, whose work has been displayed in the National Portrait Gallery, will be the official photographer at the event.

He also photographed the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh for their 70th wedding anniversary.

Mr Welby tweeted he was "delighted and privileged" to be baptising the young prince.

The Duchess of Sussex was christened and confirmed in the oak-panelled Chapel Royal by the archbishop, who also married her and Harry in May.

Louis Arthur Charles weighed 8lb 7oz when he was born in the private Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital in Paddington, London, on 23 April. He is fifth in line to the throne.

His elder brother George was also christened in the Chapel Royal, but sister Charlotte was baptised at the Church of St Mary Magdalene in Sandringham.