President Trump is fighting back against John Boltons attempt to sabotage his peace talks with North Korea.

John Bolton tried his best to sabotage President Trumps peace talks with North Korea around two weeks ago by repeatedly and publicly making insane comments demanding North Korea follow The Libya Model of nuclear disarmament.

Libyas leader Muammar Gaddafi gave up his nuclear weapons program around 2004 in an attempt to normalize relations with the US only to be sodomized to death by Western-backed rebels a few years later.

Kim Jong-un has said repeatedly he has no desire to meet the same fate as Gaddafi and threatened to pull out of peace talks early Wednesday, citing Boltons inflammatory comments.

In a statement issued by the North Korean Central News Agency [KCNA], Mr Kim took issue in particular with Mr Boltons references to the so-called Libya model of nuclear abandonment and his statements on complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation. Mr Kim claimed the remarks cast doubt on Americas sincerity, underlining that his country was not Libya, which met a miserable fate. He added: This is not an expression of intention to address the issue through dialogue. It is essentially a manifestation of awfully sinister moves to impose on our dignified state the destiny of Libya or Iraq which had [sic] been collapsed due to yielding the whole of their countries to big powers.

Late Wednesday, Trumps White House scrambled to distance themselves from Boltons Libya comments and reportedly scaled back their military drills with South Korea.

The White House on Wednesday downplayed comments by national security adviser John Bolton, who recently invoked Libyas decision to denuclearize during the Bush administration as a model for US policy on North Korea, potentially placing a planned US-North Korea summit in jeopardy. Hours earlier, a North Korean official said Boltons remarks were indicative of an awfully sinister move to imperil the Kim regime. North Korea stunned Washington on Tuesday by threatening to abandon talks between President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un if Washington insists on pushing it into a corner on nuclear disarmament. Referring to the Libya comparison, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Wednesday that she hadnt seen that as part of any discussions so Im not aware that thats a model that were using. I havent seen that thats a specific thing. I know that that comment was made. Theres not a cookie cutter model on how this would work. She continued, This is the President Trump model. Hes going to run this the way he sees fit. Were 100% confident, as weve said many times before, as Im sure youre all aware, hes the best negotiator and were very confident on that front.

The Pentagon also said there was no plan to send B-52 bombers, which North Korea feared were aimed at launching preemptive strikes against their country, to their upcoming drill.

The US militarys B-52 nuclear bombers are unlikely to participate in air drills between the United States and South Korea after Pyongyang pulled out of planned high-level talks with the South to protest against the exercise, South Korean media reported yesterday. A source in the South Korean military said yesterday that US F-22 Raptor stealth fighters are participating in the drills, which kicked off last Friday, but B-52 bombers have not joined yet and are unlikely to take part, reported KBS News. In the training, the US F-22 stealth fighters have already participated, while the B-52 has yet to join, a source told Yonhap news agency. It appears that the B-52 may not attend the exercise, which runs through May 25. [...]The Pentagon on Tuesday also played down ongoing military exercises with South Korea, saying they were routine and defensive in nature, Reuters reported. Republic of Korea (ROK) and US military forces are currently engaged in the recurring, annual ROK-US spring exercises, to include exercises Foal Eagle 2018 and Max Thunder 2018, a Pentagon spokesman said, adding that the Max Thunder air combat drills were scheduled to run from May 14 to 25. These defensive exercises are part of the ROK-US alliances routine, annual training programme to maintain a foundation of military readiness, the spokesman added.

Hopefully, Boltons latest attempt to sabotage peace talks with North Korea will fail.