Democrats and media pundits are lying about President Trump once again, claiming that he called immigrants coming into the United States animals, when Trump was clearly referring to murderous MS-13 gang members.

During a roundtable discussion of Californias sanctuary state laws, Fresno Sheriff Margaret Mims told Trump about the difficulties of notifying ICE about the presence of MS-13 gang members, commenting, There could be an MS-13 gang member, I know about, if they dont reach a threshold, I cannot tell ICE about them.

In response, Trump said, We have people coming into the country  theyre trying to come in, were stopping a lot of them  but were taking out of the country. You wouldnt believe how bad these people are. These arent people. These are animals. And were taking them out of the country at a level and at a rate thats never happened before.

Trump was clearly referring to MS-13 gang members, that was the context of the conversation, yet the media immediately reacted by claiming that Trump was calling all immigrants, and even children, animals.

Guardian journalist Hannah Jane Parkinson edited out the context of the discussion, which was about MS-13, before tweeting, Trump just verbatim referred to some immigrants as animals. These arent people, these are animals. Fuck everyone who voted for him & everyone who continues to appease him.

Neo-con Washington Post columnist Jennifer Rubin asserted that Trump was responsible for the, utter dehumanization of men, women and children.

The Daily Beast claimed that Trump was referring to some deported immigrants when he used the word animals, again ignoring the context of the discussion, which was about MS-13 gang members.

The President of the United States is a repulsive bigot, tweeted political analyst Jared Yates Sexton, before adding, Theres no other way to say it. No impartiality. No euphemisms. No way to clean it up for TV or polite discussion. Just a repulsive bigot.

NBC News reporter Benjy Sarlin said Trump comparing large classes of human beings to animals is a political tactic with a long and deadly history.

Never, ever forget this fact: Donald Trump reserves the word animals only for brown people, tweeted NY Mag writer Cristian Farias.

CNN pundit Keith Boykin said that Trump calling MS-13 gang members as animals was the same dehumanization tactic used by slave traders.

As Breitbarts John Binder notes, There have been at least 200 murders by the MS-13 gang across 22 states since 2012.

Respondents to many of these tweets accused talking heads of defending MS-13 in their zeal to attack Trump.

None of them have retracted or apologized for what is a blatant effort to completely mischaracterize the meaning of Trumps statement.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.