Rep. Blake Farenthold resigned from Congress in April after admitting to using $84,000 in taxpayer funds to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit (money he has said he will not repay). But this weekend, voters in Farentholds 27th Congressional District begin the process of replacing him  for all of about six months.

Texas Gov. Greg Abbott announced the special election to decide who will finish the rest of Farentholds House term on April 24, after consulting with the states attorney general, Ken Paxton, about whether they could schedule the election for the soonest date possible. He decided against waiting until November because Texass 27th Congressional District  which includes Corpus Christi and a wide swath of the states Gulf Coast  is still recovering from Hurricane Harvey, and needs a representative to help vie for federal recovery dollars.

But even though Farenthold is out of office, he is still managing to make life challenging for not just Texas officials, but residents of the 13 mostly rural counties voting on Saturday in an election those counties largely cant afford. When Abbott asked Farenthold to use the $84,000 of taxpayer money he hasnt paid back to help pay for the special election, Farentholds response was, according to Politico, not far from a straightforward nah.

Like with many recent special elections, the interest for national election watchers lies not in which candidate will emerge victorious but rather how much damage the Republican brand will show. Farenthold won his election in 2016 by 23 points, and the district itself is roughly 13 percent more Republican than the national average. Republicans want to avoid another runoff election and get the whole thing over with (and move past Farenthold)  but the field is crowded, and theres a good chance this debacle wont be over anytime soon.

There are nine candidates on the ballot on Saturday, including four who are also running in Novembers general election: Democrats Raul Roy Barrera and Eric Holguin, alongside Republicans Bech Bruun and Michael Cloud. Other candidates include Democrat Mike Westergren, Republican Marty Perez, Libertarian Daniel Tinus, and independents Judith Cutright and Christopher Suprun.

Cloud, the county chair of the Victoria County Republican Party, is the favorite in the race, with the support of Abbott, who said in a video endorsement, With Michael Cloud, the voters of the 27th District will be sending a proven conservative to Washington who will represent their interests and restore integrity to the office.

Bruun went hard after Cloud earlier in the race for his ties to the conservative fundraising super PAC Club for Growth Action, calling Cloud a swamp creature for accepting money from out-of-state donors via Club for Growth Action. But now Brunn has backed Cloud in the special election  potentially to avoid a runoff (or hand the seat to a Democrat).

But unless Cloud, or any candidate, can win Saturdays election outright  with more than 50 percent of the vote  there will be yet another election, a runoff most likely to be held in September. In the meantime, Farentholds district has no representation in Congress.

In an email to Politico, Abbotts deputy press secretary Mac Walker wrote that the governor was exasperated about the special election, too. The governor shares the frustrations of the District in having to pay for a special election for a disgraced ex-congressman whose final act was to stick taxpayers with the bill at the worst possible time. Texans in the 27th Congressional District deserve better representation, something they have severely lacked in Washington D.C. for far too long.