President Donald Trump called the European Union, a longtime American ally, possibly just as bad as China when it comes to trade in an interview with Fox Newss Maria Bartiromo on Sunday morning.

Trump slammed European countries for what he said are unfair trade practices and defended his decision to levy them and other allies with hefty steel and aluminum tariffs.

The European Union is possibly as bad as China, just smaller. Its terrible what they do to us, he said.

In 2017, the US ran a $101 billion trade deficit in goods and services with the EU, compared with an approximate $336 billion gap with China.

Bartiromo had asked the president whether the US should team up with its allies to try to counter Chinas protectionist trade policies, which Trump is currently targeting with $50 billion in tariffs, with more likely to follow. But he disagreed with the basic premise, saying Europeans treat us very badly, they treat us very poorly.

Take a look at the car situation: They send a Mercedes in, we cant send our cars in, he said. Look what they do to our farmers. They dont want our farm products. In all fairness, they have their farmers, so they want to protect their farmers. But we dont protect ours and they protect theirs.

Trumps administration has already placed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from the EU, Canada, and Mexico  Americas first-, third-, and fourth-largest trading partners, respectively  and has floated the idea of targeting the European automobile industry next.

Those actions have led to serious schisms in Americas international relationships: Allies have struck back with tariffs of their own, even as they lament the upending of traditional partnerships.

Though it might seem strange to aggressively target the USs major trading partners over slights  perceived or real  its not the first time the president has taken a transactional approach to Americas oldest allies.

If you want to be Americas ally, in Trumps book, you better make sure youve paid up  whether thats buying American goods or upping your defense spending.

He routinely brings up the cost of joint military exercises and questions why partner countries dont pay to host US troops around the world  two actions which benefit US national security. Trump also regularly criticizes NATO countries for not spending enough on defense, and just recently in the run-up to the alliances biannual summit sent letters to at least several members hitting those points again.

Being an international power and participating in a global economy both come with costs. And in Trumps mind, they both appear to be odious. Right after pointing out the US trade deficit with the EU on Sunday, he griped, On top of that, we spend a fortune on NATO to protect them.