As students across the country walked out of their schools for the National Student Walkout in honor of the one-month anniversary of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, House lawmakers passed a narrow gun violence prevention measure with overwhelming bipartisan support.

The STOP School Violence Act, a bill that doesnt address guns in any substantive way but provides an annual $50 million grant to schools for training programs and revamped reporting systems to bolster school safety, passed 407-10 Wednesday.

Its being hailed as a step toward addressing gun violence, but its a far cry from the comprehensive gun control student activists are demanding  and that even President Donald Trump once called on Congress to pass.

In the immediate aftermath of the shooting in a Parkland high school that killed 17 people and injured more than a dozen others, pressure mounted for Congress to actually do something on guns  and Trump seemed enthusiastic about the idea.

But after a confusing meeting in the White House in which Trump sided with Democrats and censured Republicans for being scared of the NRA, a fast-paced news cycle, and a concerted effort by conservatives and pro-gun organizations to reorient the conversation away from guns, the GOP is now coalescing around the narrowest possible violence prevention proposals  many of which dont even address guns at all.

As I see it, any movement will be focused on school security  not gun control per se, one GOP congressional aide said.

In the Senate, Majority Whip John Cornyn said lawmakers shouldnt raise their expectations about what can pass the Senate and instead focus on realistic options. And the White House, which shifted Trumps calls for comprehensive gun control toward a proposal that looked a lot more like the National Rifle Associations platform (including arming teachers), has been preoccupied with Cabinet shake-ups and hardline immigration rhetoric.

For an optimist, Im a cynic on this issue  Republicans have already succeeded by making it yesterdays news, Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) told Vox recently. I live near Sandy Hook, so I speak with authority to say that nothing is going to happen that makes this year different.

In a nationally televised bipartisan meeting on gun control in late February, Trump had Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) cheering and Cornyn looking like hed seen a ghost.

The madcap meeting with Trump on guns, which was meant to add clarity and more urgency to the debate, instead saw the president undermining the importance of due process, calling for comprehensive gun control, and even humoring the idea of an assault weapons ban  all somewhat unexpected positions for a GOP president to hold.

Any movement on background check reforms got set back because of all the events of the news cycle, the GOP aide said. There couldve been some background check measures, but the way this has been handled on multiple fronts significantly damaged any momentum.

The White House seems to have moved on as well. Trump met with video game executives last week to discuss violence in gaming and has delayed rolling out a proposal on gun reforms. When the White House did announce its proposal, it backed away from raising age limits on buying assault weapons, and instead renewed support for arming teachers and improving school safety.

So far, the House has only moved on a school safety bill that, while bipartisan, is far narrower than the scope of gun violence prevention legislation Trump was discussing only last week.

Instead, the bill reflects what the NRA is most comfortable with: a gun reform bill that doesnt actually touch guns or impact how Americans buy them.

Some Republicans are still talking guns. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL), at whom many of Parkland survivors demands to do something were directed, has taken the lead in proposing bipartisan gun control legislation. He presented a plan that would strengthen background check laws, requiring gun sellers to notify local law enforcement if somebody lies about their history and fails a background check to buy a gun  a felony under current law.

In the House, Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) has a filed a discharge petition for his bipartisan proposal with Rep. Peter King (R-NY)  a congressional maneuver that could force the speaker of the House to bring up a vote on a bill that gives states resources to expand background checks system and closes a number of loopholes for guns sold online or at gun shows. Currently, only federally licensed gun sellers are required to perform a background check.

Even if Democrats are united on the discharge petition, they still need roughly two dozen Republicans to back it before reaching the 218 threshold to force a vote. The petition has gained some bipartisan support but not yet enough to force Ryan to hold a vote. As far as Democrats are concerned, Republican leadership seems fixated on finding a narrower approach.

I think the leaderships goal is to find that spot where they can say we did something while having actually done as little as possible, a Democratic congressional staffer said of Republicans strategy. The STOP School Violence Act might be just that, although House Republican leaders voiced some support for the Senates Fix NICS Act, which would only reinforce existing laws requiring state and federal agencies to report to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. The House has already passed a version of the Fix NICS Act, which also expanded concealed carry permits to be allowed across state lines. Trump told Republicans to keep concealed carry provisions out of any gun control package this time.

But the Thompson-King bill goes further than Fix NICS  and Republicans dont seem eager to do that.

As eager as Republicans might be to move on from gun control, it will likely be a difficult issue to avoid in coming months, as gun violence prevention activists expand nationwide protests.

Beyond the National Student Walkout, there are more than 400 marches planned across all 50 states in support of the March for Our Lives movement on March 24, after high school students sparked a national rally in Washington, DC.

An outpouring of student activism made the shooting in Parkland feel different to many lawmakers. Democrats, too, are hoping a change in perception on gun control will pressure Congress to act. According to several polls after the Parkland shooting, roughly two in three Americans now say gun laws should be made stricter.

Its too early to read the tea leaves in DC, but we know the public wants action, John Feinblatt, president of Everytown for Gun Safety, a gun control advocacy group, said. They know, too, who stands in the way: the NRA and the politicians they bankroll in Congress. If leaders dont meet this moment on gun safety, then voters will throw them out in November.