Theres that delicate line between being very aggressive and working hard on something and trying to smoke out whats hidden, the renowned Washington Post journalist Bob Woodward told me about the unfolding Trump-Russia scandal. Still, something is always hidden.

Woodward, along with the reporter Carl Bernstein, famously helped expose the Watergate scandal, which, of course, brought down a president. That project has been called maybe the single greatest reporting effort of all time. And parallels have been drawn between abuses of power and cover-ups in Richard Nixons White House and some of the actions  actual or alleged  by Donald Trumps administration. But in interviews, Woodward has urged the public to cool its expectations that a major Trump-Russia bombshell is coming.

Woodward, who shared two Pulitzer Prizes at the Washington Post and has written 18 best-selling books, is now an associate editor at the paper, where he has worked for more than 40 years.

Most recently, he taught an investigative journalism course through the online education platform MasterClass. The starting point in journalism is that there are no boundaries, he says in the classs introduction. Everyone has their own version of the truth. But there are facts. There is reality.

I talked to Woodward by phone while he was at his Washington Post office. Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.

Youve been skeptical about whether the Russian investigation is going to take down Trump in the same way Watergate ended Nixons presidency. Do you think the press has oversold  or overpromised  the scandal? If so, how does the public deal with the reality not meeting their expectations?

Ive read the line almost every week or so that the [Robert] Mueller investigation is heating up, its intensifying. And theyre certainly doing a lot of things. I dont think thats an overpromise. I think those stories are important and need to be done.

But its a question of tone. A story saying Mueller and his investigators are asking the following questions is a way of clueing people in that this may be the way the investigation is going. But just because theyre asking questions doesnt mean that theyve reached conclusions or they have evidence.

You used an interesting word, overpromise. You can, in your coverage, imply things that may look like an overpromise. To go back to the Iran-Contra scandal in the Reagan era, there was a special prosecutor, an independent counsel. It was very aggressive. There was a story on the front page of the Washington Post saying that Reagan was going to be indicted. A lot of people were saying he was going to resign.

But Reagans not going to be remembered for the Iran-Contra scandal. It may be part of the history, a chapter of it, but its nothing like what Watergate is for Nixon. So theres that delicate line between being very aggressive and working hard on something and trying to smoke out whats hidden. Still, something is always hidden.

You mentioned tone earlier. You said in another interview that the media should be careful not to ridicule Trump. Doesnt he deserve it, though, when its due?

The answer is not in ridicule; the answer is in information. He obviously is a lightning rod for people in the world and certainly to journalists. I think our job is not to love or loathe people were trying to explain and understand. It is to tell exactly what people have done, what it might mean, what drives them, and who they are.

It really seems like a better word for what youre talking about is snarkiness.

Im talking about snarkiness, smugness, and sense of self-satisfaction. Certainly, criticism and exposure of whats happened here has been great. I think when the level of effort is high, the story speaks for itself, and you dont have to ridicule and editorialize.

The idea of objectivity in journalism and covering both sides of the issue is a longtime tradition of journalism. Do you think the criticism this concept has received in recent years has been justified?

Its not that you necessarily have to cover both sides with the same energy and focus, but the problem is in the culture of impatience and speed from the internet. People are not being given the time to really dig into something. When Bernstein and I were doing Watergate, we could work weeks on a single story, and editors would look at drafts, make suggestions, criticism, comment where other sources might be. And as you well know, reporters now have to sometimes do five or six versions of the same story in a day.

Facebook recently changed its algorithm to make its newsfeed more personalized. Consequently, there were layoffs across the journalism industry. What does this say about the state of media?

Were going through convulsion in the news business. Where it lands, or how it lands, I dont know.

I recently interviewed Linda Greenhouse, the former New York Times reporter, who believes the boundaries between journalists and private citizens have become too rigid. She didnt think it was an issue that she donated to Planned Parenthood while also covering the Supreme Court for the Times. What do you think about that boundary?

I think its just prudent and wise to have that boundary. If youre donating or advocating for something that has political repercussions, its just not worth it. Leonard Downie, the executive editor of the Post after Ben Bradlee, didnt vote. I heard this and thought about it, and Ive adopted the same posture of not voting in, particularly, presidential elections or primaries.

Im in DC and its heavily Democratic, so a vote one way or another wouldnt make any difference anyway. But I think its a matter of mindset. My job is not to take sides. I think its important to send the message to people and to act and be as careful and neutral as possible.

What do you make of the whole fake news concept?

We can always do better. Thats why I talk about tone; I think the tone is very important. Theres a way to write a story, present a story, and it can be tough and aggressive but not churlish. When all this is out, when the Trump and the Russian investigation is over, people, rightly, will look out and see how the media did.

You can go back and say, How did the media do in the 2016 election? There was a lot of great work, particularly by my paper, I must say. But we didnt do enough. It would have been really important to get Trumps tax returns and his audits. Its hard, and there are laws against it. But its something I wish I and others had worked harder on.

Trump had no political career before running for president, before becoming president. And his history as a real estate, golf course developer should tell you a lot. If you wanted to find out how [Bill] Clinton would be as a president, you would go back and look at how he was as a governor of Arkansas. Or how was George W. Bush as governor of Texas. Those are all important inquiries and were done in those campaigns. A lot was done on Trump, but there was more to do.

Im interested in your thoughts on some of criticism youve faced over the years. For instance, the late Christopher Hitchens once called you a stenographer to the powerful.

I think you learn, when youve done this as long as I have, that most criticism is sincere and has some basis. I would agree with some of it, disagree with some of it. A stenographer to the powerful? Ive written a lot of books and stories, and sometimes the sources are powerful people who are unnamed because they will only tell the truth if they are unnamed. The powerful could be the station chief in the CIA in a Middle East[ern] country, for instance. Im delighted to find out what that person thinks or says.

Do you push people to go on the record as much as possible?

No, I dont. We kid ourselves if we think that somehow people are going to want to tell the truth on the record about military operations, CIA operations, jockeying and infighting in the White House. Theyre just not going to. Often, the most bland, irrelevant, and untrue statements are those that are on the record. So what we have to do is use more background, deep background sources, but check within an inch of its life.

Make sure its true. If theres another side, explore that fully. I think thats whats happened in the Trump era  a lot of the good reporting has sources that have not been named. I understand readers and the discomfort with unnamed sources, but if you go to the deputy CIA director and say, Id like an on-the-record comment about this cover operation, youd be laughed out of the building.

Back to other broadsides against you, Joan Didion claimed your books, post-Watergate, have a scrupulous passivity to them, and that you wrongfully fail to draw conclusions and make judgments in your investigations.

Its not my job to provide judgment. Theres an implied critique in this, in the Watergate coverage, that we were making judgments. We werent. These were facts. I thought the best answer was a Jill Abramson review in the Times, in which she looked at my four books on the wars under George W. Bush. She said that [much of what Id uncovered was] new, this is probably the best [record] well get, and some of it is very critical of Bush. But at the same time, Im not jumping up and down on a mattress saying, Hey, look! I think it should be as neutrally presented as possible. Let people involved make their own judgments.

Eric Allen Been is a freelance writer who has written for the Wall Street Journal, the Boston Globe, Vice, Playboy, the New Republic, the Los Angeles Review of Books, and TheAtlantic.com.