The founder of a movement that encourages disillusioned Democrats to walk away from their party says he was denied service by an employee at a New York electronics store after he was recognized from an interview with Fox News host Tucker Carlson.

Brandon Straka, a gay hairdresser and the founder of the Walk Away campaign using the viral hashtag #WalkAway, had spent over an hour on Thursday carefully choosing equipment at electronics superstore Adorama in Manhattan following a week of media appearances, reports the Epoch Times.

After an employee sent Straka to a different department to buy a microphone, a customer in front of him exclaimed I saw you on Tucker!  before asking for a picture with the Walk Away founder.

The exchange was overheard by a store employee, who then refused to sell him the mic.

He stared at me with this kind of dead-pan expression, Straka told The Epoch Times. And he said: Are you planning to use this equipment for alt-right purposes?

As Straka struggled to comprehend what was happening, the clerk, whom Straka asked not be named, said: Im sorry I just dont feel comfortable selling to you. I cant sell to you. -Epoch Times

A shocked Straka reeled from what he says was his first experience of a public shunning over his political views  though he said that friends had done so in private.

It kind of took my breath away, he said. I said to him, Listen, if you cant sell to me, thats fine, but, you know, person to person, Id like to talk to you, because I dont think you know what Walk Away is about. And he said, Well, you know, Im done. Im not comfortable selling to you. Youre welcome to talk to someone else in the store but Im not going to sell to you.

Beside himself after the experience, Straka says he went downstairs, composed himself, and asked another clerk to help him  only to be referred to the bigoted employee. Eventually, he got his mic.

Straka saw how baffled the go-between salesman looked. He was like, Youre not? And he repeated: Im not selling to him.

The other salesman came over to Straka and said, Lets go back upstairs. Straka waited for about 20 minutes, and this time the salesman returned with the microphone and Straka was able to pay and leave.

Walking out of the store, he said: I was shaking. I was hurt. I had this huge adrenaline rush. I felt embarrassed and I also felt nervous. -Epoch Times

Straka then expressed concern over being doxxed by the angry employee since Adorama collects so much personal information.

At every station of the store, Id given them my personal information. What if this kid decides to go into the computer and dox [to publish private information, as in a phone number or address] me?

I am not a guy who has a lot of money. I cant have people going to my apartment and harassing me.

My instinct is telling me to practice compassion and forgiveness here. I dont want to see this guy getting fired. I dont want anything bad to happen to him. I dont want people harassing him.

Adorama issued a statement in response to the incident over Twitter:

The Adorama Management Team deeply regrets the incident involving an employee in our store. Please know this is not who we are, and does not reflect the position of our owners or other staff members. This is being taken seriously and is being addressed with the highest priority.

Straka founded the #WalkAway campaign in late May, creating a Facebook page and posting a video explaining his views.