One top Republican senator is pressing ahead with legislation to protect special counsel Robert Mueller, despite a vow from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) that he wont allow the bill to get a vote on the floor.

Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), the Senate Judiciary Committee chair, told reporters on Wednesday that his committee will vote on the bill regardless.

They got together, so I feel an obligation to keep my word and move forward, Grassley said. But I cant worry about whats going on on the floor. Ive just got to do what I can do.

If the bill can get out of committee, its future is uncertain, especially after McConnells promise to block it from getting to the floor. The Senate majority leader has said for months that he doesnt believe a bipartisan bill to protect Mueller is necessary because he doesnt think Trump will fire the special counsel, despite Trumps rhetoric.

Just days after the administration fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe in March, President Donald Trump furiously attacked special counsel Robert Mueller on Twitter, writing that the Mueller probe should never have been started, and that the the Mueller team was biased and a total WITCH HUNT.

Most Senate Republicans, however, have sided with McConnell, seeming unfazed by the presidents comments when Vox interviewed them last month.

I know what President Trump tweeted, but President Trumps management style is such that he likes to say whats on his mind, Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA) told Vox last month, repeating a time-worn Trump-will-be-Trump sentiment. He grows anxious when he has an unexpressed thought.

It has become increasingly clear that neither the tweeting nor McCabes dismissal is enough for Republican leadership in Congress to act to protect Mueller, or his investigation of Russias meddling in the 2016 presidential elections, from any major staffing shake-ups.

The bipartisan proposal comes from a group including Sens. Thom Tillis (R-NC), Chris Coons (D-DE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Cory Booker (D-NJ)  and would check Trumps power to fire Mueller by requiring the decision to be put before a three-judge panel in federal courts.

McConnell has also been clear he thinks Mueller should be allowed to carry out his investigation into Russias alleged meddling in full. But he is not prepared to follow that through with legislation.

I agree with the presidents lawyers that Bob Mueller should be allowed to finish the job. I think it was an excellent appointment, McConnell said, referring to White House lawyer Ty Cobbs statement that Trump is not considering or discussing the firing of the Special Counsel.

Last month, I talked to five Senate Republicans to see why Congress isnt taking action and what actions from the White House  if any  would be a red line for Congress to act.

Here are the transcripts of our conversations, lightly edited for length and clarity.

Is there any room for Congress to protect the special counsels investigation?

I dont think its necessary. First, I dont think its constitutional. If President Trump issued an executive order this morning and said Kennedy is off the Judiciary Committee, I dont think that would be constitutional. I also am not sure its constitutional for us to tell the president who he can fire and cant fire. Having said that, I think its all academic  Mr. Mueller isnt going anywhere.

So what would be the red flag? Or the red line to cross? The president has tweeted 

Well, if he fired Mr. Mueller. That would be the red flag.

Do you think there would be consequences in Congress if he did that?

I think Congress would be very upset. I think Mr. Mueller ought to be allowed to finish his investigation and report to the American people, and I trust the American people to figure it all out. I know what President Trump tweeted, but President Trumps management style is such that he likes to say whats on his mind. He grows anxious when he has an unexpressed thought. Its not a criticism; its just the way he is. He likes to say, Heres what Im thinking.

But you have to judge him by what he does. He hasnt fired Mr. Mueller. His lawyer says hes not going to fire Mr. Mueller. I dont expect him to fire Mr. Mueller. And so I think this is all an academic exercise.

I wanted to ask if you saw any room for Congress to act to protect the special counsels investigation.

Im not sure thats necessary at the moment.

Um. Because its not. Its not been terminated or suspended.

So the tweets, or McCabe?

Did you feel the need for Congress to act to protect the Mueller investigation?

Well, the problem is that Im not convinced the two pieces of legislation that have been introduced are constitutional.

So what can Congress do?

Well, we are still exploring that. One thing that I think leadership needs to do is to firmly state, You cant go here, and communicate that with the president. We want to preempt this; we dont want to act afterward.

It seems like a lot of your colleagues seem unfazed by a lot of these actions. Whats the red flag, if any? Do you see a line being drawn?

Not as much lately. Hes closer than ever, it seems. Hes going after Mueller specifically now on Twitter. So I am concerned. I think its time for our leadership to be firm and say this is the red line, dont cross it.

But you dont think there is a constitutional way Congress can act?

We are still looking, obviously. I mean, the only remedies afterward, you know, are, well, the ones you know of. So we are still looking. But Im not sure you can infringe on the executive power like that.

Do you think there is room for Congress to act to protect the special counsel?

I would have thought if it were to happen, it would have happened on the [omnibus]  a must-pass piece of legislation.

So you think this is something Congress should do?

Sure. I think  I am just being honest  does something happen anytime soon? I doubt it. Do I think there would be a significant backlash if he were fired? Yes. Do I think the administration is planning to do it? No.

It seems like a lot of your colleagues are unfazed. Is there a red line before it gets to actually firing Mueller?

I guess there could be. But again, the backlash would be very strong if that were to occur. Do I think there is momentum to pass something  honestly, do I think there is? Not really. But the best place would have been to put something in this [omnibus], which is must-pass. I actually suggested that.

But I dont think anything is going to happen anytime soon. Just being honest.

Do you think Congress should act to protect the special counsels investigation?

Uh. I think those of us like me who believe Mueller ought to be able to do his work ought to continue to speak out, and I see no indication from anything the White House has said  in fact, just the opposite. They said they are going to respect him doing his job.

So you dont think Congress should act to 

Well, I dont know what it would be (elevator door closes).