This years unlikeliest competitive Senate race might be Mississippi.

There, in the Deep South, 80-year-old Republican Sen. Thad Cochran retired after four decades in the Senate. He was replaced by a new senator, Cindy Hyde-Smith, appointed by Gov. Phil Bryant, who had been in close contact with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell as it became clear that Cochrans health would not allow him to serve much longer. Cochrans seat will now be on the ballot in November  and hard-right conservatives have had their eye on Mississippi for months.

Could it be Alabama all over again?

Conservative insurgent Chris McDaniel, a former state senator with ties to the neo-Confederate movement, was prepared to primary Mississippis other Republican senator at Steve Bannons urging. But now hes running for Cochrans open seat.

McDaniel already challenged Cochran in a bitterly contested 2014 Republican primary  it involved a break-in and a suicide  and to this day, his supporters contend that election was stolen from him in part because many of the black voters in the state lined up behind Cochran.

But even if Hyde-Smith prevails over McDaniel among Republicans, as recent polls suggest she would, Democrats could still make the race competitive. A new poll conducted for Yall Politics, a well-read conservative news site in the state, showed McDaniel significantly behind Hyde-Smith  and found Hyde-Smith leading the top Democrat in the race, former congressman Mike Espy, by just six points.

Mississippi is a red state, but I think most people would be surprised to learn that [John] McCain only won the state by 13 points and [Mitt] Romney by 12. It is actually substantially less red than Alabama, Sean Trende, an elections analyst at RealClearPolitics, told me in an email. When you add it all up, Mississippi is a lighter load than Alabama.

Then you have the Trump factor. For now, the president has refused to back Bryants choice for the Cochran seat. Mississippis Senate race should be a familiar drama  the establishment versus the far-right wing, McConnell versus Bannon, with a credible Democrat waiting to run against whoever makes it out alive.

First things first: The Mississippi race will be a jungle primary. That means every candidate runs in the first race on Election Day in November. If one candidate gets 50 percent of the total vote, they win. But if they dont  and it seems unlikely, with a strong Democratic candidate and a fractured GOP field  the top two candidates face each other in a runoff election that same month. (One of them could be the Democrat Espy  whom well get to in a bit.)

McDaniel was originally going to challenge Republican Sen. Roger Wicker, a favorite target of alt-right mastermind and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon. McDaniel had discussed his Wicker challenge with Bannon before announcing, Mississippi Today reported last fall, and his potential candidacy had received favorable coverage from Breitbart, Bannons former employer. But McDaniel switched over to the open Cochran race after the senator said he would step down in April.

It probably doesnt make much difference to Bannon, who clearly sees Mississippi as fertile ground for the alt-right populist revolution he is still trying to get off the ground.

Mitch McConnell is a literal anchor tied to the hips of folks like Roger Wicker and Thad Cochran, Andy Surabian, a Bannon adviser, told NBC News last fall. We expect the anti-establishment wave we are seeing across the country today to hit Mississippi like a tsunami in 2018 and beyond.

Bryants pick to replace Cochran on April 1 was Cindy Hyde-Smith, the states agriculture commissioner. She is Mississippis first woman senator.

McDaniel had once upon a time lobbied Bryant to name him as Cochrans replacement, the Washington Post reported, but the governor was not interested.

There is a lot of bad blood between McDaniel and the Republican establishment, left over from the 2014 primary. Bryant even took a swing at McDaniel after the state senator announced he would switch from the Wicker to the Cochran race.

This opportunistic behavior is a sad commentary for a young man who once had great potential, Bryant told the Jackson Clarion-Ledger.

The newspaper reported that Bryant was looking for a candidate who was particularly well suited to beating McDaniel. The governor settled on Hyde-Smith, but the White House and Washington Republicans werent exactly on board with that choice. Politico reported that Trump wont campaign for or endorse Hyde-Smith because the White House is worried her history as a Democrat (she switched parties in 2010) could make her vulnerable. McDaniel, right on cue, has already begun attacking Hyde-Smith for her past in the other party.

The most recent polling suggests Hyde-Smith is building a substantial advantage over McDaniel, though. The Clarion Ledger reported this week that Espy and Hyde-Smith were pulling away from the rest of the field based on the Yall Politics survey of the race:

The establishment is hellbent on stopping McDaniel and they might be succeeding. Which brings us back to 2014.

McDaniel has to be taken seriously because he mounted a very credible challenge against Cochran in 2014. Lets start with the math: In the first round of the GOPs jungle primary that year, McDaniel actually got more votes (49.5 percent) than Cochran (49 percent); a man named Thomas Carey got the remaining votes. But McDaniel did not get the needed 50 percent, so he and Cochran had a rematch.

In that showdown, Cochran narrowly prevailed over McDaniel, 51 percent to 49 percent, but not without a lot of bitterness and allegations of wrongdoing on both sides.

But those are the vote totals. Thats not the memorable part. In brief  and to understand why Bryant and other establishment Republicans are so hell-bent on beating McDaniel this year  here is your unofficial rundown of the 2014 Mississippi primary, courtesy of Talking Points Memo:

In other words, the McDaniel campaign tried to use the specter of black voters to delegitimize an election result  a problematic tactic, to say the least, given the state senators history of racially charged remarks.

The 2014 race is still a sore point for everybody involved. Just this year, McDaniel said:

And that explains equally well, on the establishment side of the equation, why Bryant and other Republican leaders are so intent on defeating McDaniel again. McDaniel and his supporters had maligned Cochran, a titan of Mississippi Republican politics, and deployed dirtier-than-dirty tactics to try to unseat him.

All of this leads to a pretty serious opening for Democrats. So who is the Democrat in this race?

Former Democratic Rep. Mike Espy  who comes with some of his own baggage after being acquitted of bribery charges in the 1990s  has already announced that he will run for Cochrans seat with the backing of Democrats in the state. The 64-year-old represented the Jackson area in Congress for six years before serving as President Bill Clintons secretary of agriculture from 1993 to 1994.

But he was forced to step down amid an ethics investigation. Allegations were made that he improperly received airplane and sports tickets. Espy was eventually acquitted on all charges, but it more or less ended his career in politics; he has been out of public office for nearly 25 years, spending the past decade as a private attorney.

Espy looks likely to lock up one of the spots for the runoff election. That means the initial vote will function as a quasi-Republican primary: The top two GOP candidates will be vying to come in first or second and earn the right to face Espy. And with Democratic turnout up all around the country, that could put Espy on the map in a real way.

I think against a more traditional Southern Republican, you get maybe something that looks like the presidential numbers, tightened a bit for turnout, Trende told me.

To his point: for now, according to the Yall Politics poll, Hyde-Smith is leading with 42 percent of the vote to Espys 36 percent.

If Hyde-Smith holds onto her lead over McDaniel, she has to be considered the favorite against Espy in the runoff. Maybe things will be a little closer than usual. It could get even more competitive if Espy runs a strong campaign or if the national environment becomes even worse for Republicans.

If McDaniel were to win and face Espy in a one-on-one runoff, things start to get really interesting. The poll cited by the Clarion Ledger found the Democrat with a 43 percent to 24 percent lead over McDaniel.

Espy certainly starts with some challenges: He could have lost his skills in retail politics, he might not be adept at fundraising, etc. But if he shows up in game shape, he could have some real advantages in Mississippi against McDaniel.

The conservative candidate has a troubling list of, shall we say, racially charged rhetoric and affiliating with more openly racist people:

With some solid fundraising and spending, Espy could turn out more black voters  already about one-third of the states electorate  and he could then bring the race down to single digits, Trende told me.

At that point, youre really not talking about convincing that many whites to either state home or vote Democrat because of McDaniels racialized statements, he said.

Espy, it should be noted, said kind words about Cochran as he announced his candidacy, and the Clarion-Ledger wrote that Espy has long been considered the model for the kind of black candidate who could win crossover white voters in Mississippi.

Were a long way from an Alabama-style upset coming to fruition in its neighbor state. But the state may have the right ingredients.