A Twitter user claims to have discovered proof that MSNBC host Joy Reid was in fact responsible for the homophobic posts on her blog that she claims were written by hackers.

Although she initially apologized back in December for past comments that were derogatory towards gays, Reid was hit with new allegations after posts from her blog were uncovered via the Internet Archive Wayback Machine.

The posts went beyond ridiculing Republican hypocrisy on homosexuality and suggested that Reid had in fact expressed hateful views towards the LGBT community, an unforgivable sin in leftist circles.

Reid claims that posts were made by hackers, but the Internet Archives Chris Butler asserts they found no evidence to substantiate her claim.

When we reviewed the archives, we found nothing to indicate tampering or hacking of the Wayback Machine versions. At least some of the examples of allegedly fraudulent posts provided to us had been archived at different dates and by different entities, said Butler.

Reid had tried to stop the Internet Archive indexing her old blog site back in December, but screenshots of the offending posts had already been made.

Zero Hedge summarizes the unlikely scenario that Reid is claiming; Hackers must have broken into her website prior to the internet archive cataloging it, and made dozens of homophobic, bigoted entries, which just sat there for years until they were unearthed nearly a decade later.

A Twitter user with the handle @bourgeoisalien has added more fuel to the fire, claiming to have uncovered evidence that proves Reid was in fact personally responsible for writing the anti-gay posts.

The proof revolves around the spelling of the word feud on Reids website, where it is incorrectly spelled fued.

The misspelling features in an article that bashes Rosie ODonnell.

This misspelling is then repeated in two of Reids own tweets from 2010 and 2013, where she also incorrectly spells the word as fued.

Lets be clear. Joy Reid did write all of these hideous blog posts, not only were they homophobic, they cheered on Trump, fat shamed Rosie ODonnell, and were insanely mean, asserts the Twitter user.

If you dont believe experts who know shes lying, her constant misspelling of feud is a dead give away.

Whether this will force Reid into acknowledging she did write the posts is unlikely as she remains adamant that they were the work of hackers.

The FBI has announced that it has opened an investigation into potential criminal activities surrounding several online accounts, including personal email and blog accounts, belonging to Joy-Ann Reid.

Meanwhile, the Daily Beast has said that it will put a pause on Reids columns until the matter is resolved.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.