CNN is once again lobbying YouTube to shut down its competition with a new feature length article that links Infowars and other anti-establishment YouTube channels with Nazism and pedophilia.

In an article entitled YouTube ran ads from hundreds of brands on extremist channels, CNN fans the flames of hysteria about commercials for big companies appearing on unsavory YouTube videos.

Ads from over 300 companies and organizations  including tech giants, major retailers, newspapers and government agencies  ran on YouTube channels promoting white nationalists, Nazis, pedophilia, conspiracy theories and North Korean propaganda, states the article.

It goes on to highlight a number of channels on which the ads appeared, including a white nationalist platform, a channel run by a self-proclaimed Nazi, and a channel run by Amos Yee that was used to promote pedophilia.

Advertisements potentially funded by US tax dollars also appeared on the channels promoting North Korean propaganda. They also ran on channels connected to InfoWars, Yees channel and far-right channels, states the article, seamlessly linking Infowars with the pro-pedophilia channel.

The article also bashes left-wing commentator Jimmy Dore, illustrating again how CNN has embarked on a lobbying campaign to shut down its competition, no matter which end of the political spectrum it resides on.

So @CNN is so scared of Youtube news channels that they R creating a fake crisis so that youtube will now fully demonetize independent news. My show goes against the Pro Syrian War narrative being uniformly pushed by Est. news, so they smear me hard, tweeted Dore.

As we highlighted back in February, CNN directly lobbied YouTube in an attempt to have them shut down the Alex Jones Channel by encouraging YouTube to issue Infowars with community guidelines strikes over our coverage of the Parkland shooting.

CNN reporters Brian Stelter and Oliver Darcy subsequently expressed their concern that more people were turning away from mainstream media in favor of independent YouTubers.

Networks like CNN, whose average primetime viewer is aged 60, are struggling to attract the coveted 18-35 age range audience (which is easily the biggest demographic for my YouTube channel).

This is the primary reason why they have embarked on a cynical and underhanded lobbying campaign to shut down their competition.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.