Republican Debbie Lesko and Democrat Hiral Tipirneni face off Tuesday, April 24, in the special election for Arizonas Eighth Congressional District. We will have live results below, courtesy of Decision Desk HQ.

So far, slightly more than 151,000 early ballots have been cast, and registered Republicans are outvoting Democrats 49 percent to 28 percent, with a median voter age of 67, according to the Cook Political Reports Dave Wasserman.

When Republican Rep. Trent Franks resigned amid reports that he had offered a female staffer $5 million to be his baby surrogate, no one thought his deeply red Arizona district could be competitive. It encompasses the suburbs north and west of Phoenix in Maricopa County  the stomping grounds of infamous former Sheriff Joe Arpaio and home to the reliably conservative Sun City retirement community. Donald Trump won the district by 21 points. But polls showed some tightening in recent weeks, and Democrats are watching closely to see if they can weaken Republicans stronghold in the district.

The question most election observers are zeroing in on isnt necessarily if Republican Lesko is going to lose but whether Democrats can narrow the margin by which Trump and Franks won. And that alone has worried the GOP  especially after they saw Democrats win a Trump +20 district in Pennsylvania only last month.

Outside groups have poured more than $700,000 into Leskos campaign and sent some of the partys biggest fundraising names  from House Speaker Paul Ryan to Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy  to stump for her. Its clear Republicans arent taking any chances.

Its difficult to see how Democrats could replicate their success in Pennsylvania in Arizonas Eighth. Republicans have strong roots in the region and make up 41 percent of registered voters  a clear advantage over Democrats, who only make up 24 percent of registered voters. Its home to Maricopa County and Arpaio, who as sheriff was known for infringing on the constitutional rights of residents by assuming immigration status.

Despite Arizonas fast-growing Latino population statewide, this district is nearly 90 percent white. Almost half the population is 55 or older. It includes the Sun City retirement community, a massive chunk of the district that consistently votes Republican.

And almost three-quarters of the voters submitted their ballots by mail. The county the district is in has a permanent early voting list, which many in Sun City residents are on. In other words, there isnt as much potential for a drop-off of Republican voters.

Franks, who represented the vast majority of these constituents in the House of Representatives since 2003, was a clear reflection of these deeply red roots. He was considered to be one of the most conservative members of the House of Representatives  hes a House Freedom Caucus member and ardent Trump defender, and is staunchly anti-abortion (he once tried to pass a 20-week abortion ban in the District of Columbia, even though he does not represent it).

Republicans are mounting a run-of-the-mill pro-tax cuts, tough on immigration, pro-Trump campaign. Meanwhile, the Democrat, Tipirneni, a former doctor, has almost exclusively focused on health care and Social Security.

Put together, this race is much less about the possibility of an upset Democratic win than it is a litmus test of party enthusiasm.

The question going into election day is: Can Democrats tighten the margin of Republican victory?

Correction: Polls close at 10 pm Eastern, as Arizona does not do Daylight Savings Time.