As allegations of professional misconduct swirl around Adm. Ronny Jackson, President Donald Trumps pick to head the Department of Veterans Affairs, Trump seems to be admitting the drama probably isnt worth it  for Jackson.

I said to Dr. Jackson, what do you need it for? Trump said of the White House doctor during a joint press conference with French President Emmanuel Macron Tuesday.

I dont want to put a man through a process like this, Trump said. Its too ugly, and its too disgusting.

As Voxs Jen Kirby explained, the Senate has postponed Jacksons confirmation hearing indefinitely after lawmakers on the Veterans Affairs Committee were informed of his possible professional misconduct in the military and on the White Houses medical staff related to allegations that he drank on the job, overprescribed medication, and created a hostile workplace environment. Senators are currently reviewing allegations related to improper conduct in various stages of his career, according to CNN.

Jacksons nomination to replace former VA Secretary David Shulkin, whom Trump abruptly fired in March, had already been met with skepticism from industry watchers. He has no management experience and was seemingly picked for the job because of his good personal relationship with Trump, who was pleased with the clean bill of health Jackson gave him. Before the nomination, Jackson was widely respected on both sides of the aisle; now he faces a difficult Senate confirmation hearing.

Jackson told reporters Tuesday he has every intention of moving forward with the nomination. But Trump says he is advising Jackson to drop out of contention altogether.

Given the volatility of the Trump administration and the instability of the top Cabinet positions (four Cabinet secretaries were fired in four weeks in March), maybe he should listen to Trump, who appears to recognize that even the opportunity to run a $200 billion federal agency isnt worth the current political mess in his Washington.

Jackson isnt the first person to make it through the Trump administrations vetting process only to be more thoroughly and publicly investigated down the line  and he likely wont be the last.