On Sunday night, Hillary Clinton delivered the Arthur Miller Freedom to Write Lecture at the PEN America World Voices Festival. It was about what youd expect from the former candidate in her first speech since the publication of James Comeys memos on Donald Trump. Today, we have a president who seems to reject the role of a free press in our democracy, she said. Although obsessed with his own press coverage, he evaluates it based not on whether it provides knowledge or understanding, but solely on whether the daily coverage helps him and hurts his opponents. More interesting, however, was Clinton sitting down with novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie after her speech.

Adichie  who joked that she thought of Clinton as her auntie  was a warm and sympathetic conversationalist, but she was also willing to press certain issues. Adichie asked Clinton whether she had fought Trump hard enough, why white women voted for Trump, and why Clinton described herself as a wife first in her Twitter bio. (When you put it like that, Im going to change it, Clinton quipped, though as of this writing, she hasnt.) It was a thoughtful reexamination of the 2016 election and her own role in Trumps victory.

Highlights of their conversation follow, lightly edited for length and clarity.

In your memoir Living History, you wrote, Im not the sort of person who routinely pours out her deepest feelings. And Im hoping that this evening will be different, that you will pour out those feelings to me. But more seriously, I wondered about that, because I realize that what you are describing is a certain reserve that is your nature. But I wonder whether you think you might have had to develop that reserve because of the experiences youve had.

I think thats a really good way of asking the question. I do think its a combination of, perhaps, my innate reserve, my temperament, and the experiences Ive had. Which, by and large, [give me] no cause for complaint, but which have been somewhat taxing and, in the political realm, quite brutal from time to time.

But I think its also the age in which I was raised and became a young woman. And its hard to separate out all these different factors. So although I was fortunate to have parents who encouraged me to follow my interests and to get an education and to speak up, yet in the atmosphere growing up in the 1950s and the early 1960s, that was challenging for a young woman. We were pretty much taught from an early age that the worst thing you can do if youre going to try to be competitive, if youre going to try to go further than, in my case, my mother: You cant show your emotions. You cant be angry. You cant cry. You cant do a lot of things that are part of natural human responses.

In my book What Happened, I have a whole chapter called On Being a Woman in Politics, and I use some examples, not only from my own life but from others as well. So trying to walk that line is still more challenging, I think, for women. And my own experience and my own temperament Im sure added to that.

Just before the election, I wrote a piece about you. If youll permit me, Id like to read a few paragraphs and then well talk about it.

When I sent out this piece, it was titled  I titled it  Why Is Hillary Clinton So Widely Loved? And Im going to read to you a few very short paragraphs from the beginning:

When I sent this in, I was struck by how much back-and-forth happened, particularly with the title. I was told, Oh, we cant have that title. And I said, Well, why cant we? Its an opinion piece; thats what I think.

I mentioned people who rage on your behalf at how the media treats you. I am one of those people. But until then, I hadnt realized ... it just seemed to me to be so insidious. And in the end, the title was changed. [Laughing.] Because somehow I was silenced, I was censored.

So I want to talk to you about: How do you keep going on? I mean, seriously, knowing that the discourse around your candidacy became about likability: who likes her, who doesnt like her. I kept thinking, Who the hell cares? Shes qualified.

For 25 years, ever since Ive been in the public spotlight, there has been a very concerted effort to attack me, spread falsehoods about me and the like. Which I knew was going on and which do take a toll. They take a toll, not really on me, but they take a toll on peoples views about me. Because when you have so many absurd lies being propagated about you, you come to know that even when they are easily disprovable, theres a lingering doubt people have.

Ive not done  I will say this clearly, as I feel it  Ive not done or figured out a way to combat that effectively.

I dont know quite why I provoke that kind of overreaction. And so many of the accusations against me are so absurd. But then in retrospect, when I was writing my book and looking at all the research, enough people believed them. They believed the most outlandish, ridiculous stories: that I was running a child sex-trafficking ring out of the basement of a pizzeria. [Audience laughs.] You laugh, but people believed it. Because, as I said in my remarks, it was weaponized. And it was delivered to people who the very smart manipulators behind that knew might be affected.

Just the other day, I looked at an Ohio State analysis about the three stories that led people who had supported President Obama to either not vote or vote for a third party, or even vote for Trump. Most didnt vote or voted third-party.

The three were that I was dying  a very constant theme. You may not have seen it, but it was very much in the atmosphere. The second was that the pope had endorsed Trump. And the third was that I was supplying weapons to ISIS. And people believed it because the stories are delivered in a way that looks like news.

I dont blame voters. I dont blame people who received that on their Facebook feed or their Twitter account, or however they received it, thinking, Oh, I dont know. Even when contrary information is presented  [joking] Im still here, I havent died yet, and the pizzeria didnt even have a basement  you just have to wonder, How do we stop this?

Im not just concerned because of me. Im concerned because were living in a time when information can be so powerful. And if its wrong, or if its intended to influence you to do something that is not reality-based but based instead in propaganda, thats something that we have to face going forward.

I want to talk about the connection between free speech and feminism, because were talking about free speech today. Obviously, its important to talk about the emancipated literary variety. But what about this idea that often the pursuit of censorship is one of silencing?

Constantly, people have said since the election, You need to be quiet; you need to go away. Im talking about people on the right and the left, often people on the left who should know better. I read that as a feminist issue.

When your book came out, for example, I went online and I read some of the coverage. And I found myself being disappointed, actually, by people on the left who should know better, saying, Weve decided she needs to go away, the Democratic Party needs to face forward and think about the future. And I found myself thinking, Maybe we could ask Ms. Clinton if she could bring in the nearly 66 million votes that she brought? And then whoever runs can bring in a few more.

The point being, Im so happy youre not being silent. But I want you to talk, if you could, about that decision not to be silent. And also, how are you dealing with the constant barrage of attempts to silence you?

I found this also very curious. Because to the best of my memory, no man who ever lost a presidential election was ever told to shut up and go away. And Im glad they werent, because each had points of view and experiences that were worth hearing about.

Ive given a lot of thought to this, and I do conclude  and I write about it in my book  that there is this long, long history of trying to silence women. Literally in literature, in the western canon, it goes back to The Odyssey.

Penelope is holding the whole country together while Odysseus is taking his time getting back. Shes raising their son, Telemachus.

Theres a very telling scene where all the usual partiers and others are hanging around, hoping that shell finally decide that her husbands dead and marry one of them so that they can take over. Telemachus is now about 17, so hes a young man.

His mother comes down, as she always did, to greet people and listen to their complaints and to continue being the glue that held the country together. And her son greets her by saying, Mother, go back upstairs. Speech is not for women.

The really terrific classics professor Mary Beard  who some of you know, and if you dont, look her up  has just written a book about women and power, in which she traces this whole line of being quiet: Dont speak. Dont speak up.

Now, for everyone saying, Well, thats a Hillary Clinton problem. The people who theyd interview, saying, Well, of course I would vote for a woman! Just not that woman. In the last year and a half, what have we seen?

Weve seen Elizabeth Warren ordered off the floor of the Senate by Mitch McConnell. I was in the Senate for eight years and I never saw that. Because she was reading a letter from Coretta Scott King about Jeff Sessions, and he told her to stop. She had every right not to stop, and when she didnt, he literally had her taken off the floor. And one of her male colleagues  a really good guy, another Democratic senator  he came to the floor of the Senate and he began to read her letter, and nobody said a word.

Or Kamala Harris, who was doing her job and cross-examining Jeff Sessions and [was] basically told to stop talking: Dont do that.

This is not about one woman and one election. This remains a very serious challenge to women speaking out, speaking up, trying to or already assuming positions of power and influence.

So when I hear that, I hear the echoes going back thousands of years. And I hear the unfortunate belief that people still have, that womens voices are not particularly appealing. That womens words are not particularly important.

And in my case, it was also because a lot of those same people who said, Dont talk, they did not want to face what happened in the 2016 election. So getting me off the stage was a way of ignoring everything that had gone on.

I come at it very differently. If we dont understand what happened in that election, we are doomed to see it repeated in future elections.

I was thinking about you going to the inauguration  God bless you; I wouldnt have  and just looking back: What do you think about the fact that 52 percent of white women voted for this president?

I say that because we knew he had shown us what he was. We knew. It wasnt just the Access Hollywood tape; it was a way of being and doing in the world.

I ask you this because youre a white woman, but also because: Gloria Steinem in her memoir writes that many of the women she spoke to who were most opposed to you being president, many of them were white women who were very similar to you: they were educated, they were middle-class, they were about your age. And she was struck by that.

In reading about Trump, I wonder if these are the same women who voted for him. She writes that she tried very hard to humanize you to them, because of all this, Shes too cold, shes too ambitious, and all of those things. Do you think about that?

White women writ large, all white women, have been steadily voting Republican for decades. I actually got a slightly higher percentage of white women than President Obama.

White women have moved toward the Republican Party for a lot of reasons. In 2000 and 2004, there were reasons that had to do  especially 2004  with the 9/11 attack. In 2008 and 12, President Obama had an amazing campaign, and it turned out so many people of color that the fact that white women werent voting for him was not as salient.

As [for] my case, I actually got a majority of college-educated white women. It was, I think, exactly because these were the women who were most worried about what theyd seen of Trump during the campaign.

But for other women, particularly women who gravitate in presidential elections toward the Republican Party, there were a combination of explanations. They didnt believe hed be as bad as he said. They thought it was all political rhetoric. They thought he would bring real change. And as I say in my book, when you run to succeed a two-term president of your own party, its always an uphill struggle.

I think there were a number of factors at work in that. But what weve seen of the energy coming after the election, starting with the Womens March and going into the political races of the last year and a half: Weve seen college-educated, primarily suburban women moving away from the Republican Party because of the performance that they have now been able to watch.

Youve made many choices for love. In reading about your life, I was thinking about what if you hadnt gone to Arkansas very very young.

I should say that I spend lots of time being very protective about you, and in my mind I call you my auntie. I get very protective of my Auntie Hillary, and when people talk about your personal life, I find it very irritating. And having read quite a bit of your own writing about your personal life, I think that you have a remarkable love story. I really do. It seems to me that you have this wonderful friendship.

However, I have to say that Im guilty of being very interested in your personal life. And the one question I have about that is about your Twitter account.

So your Twitter account first of all describes you as a wife. And then its mom, and then its grandmother. And when I saw that, I have to confess that I felt just a little bit upset. And then I went and I looked at your husbands Twitter, and the first word that he used to describe himself was not husband.

I wanted to ask if this was your choice, if it was something that you wanted to do, or maybe something that somebody thought would be good for the campaign. And if its your choice, whether you think its fair for me to have been a little bit annoyed by this.

Well, when you put it like that, Im going to change it.

You know, theres always this  for me, Ill just speak for myself, but I think its broader than just me  theres always this internal conflict. When you are very committed to your relationships, your family  in my case, parents and siblings, and obviously my husband and my daughter and now my grandchildren  and your own identity, and how you feel about yourself and describe yourself.

Yesterday, I went to Barbara Bushs funeral. She gave a very heartfelt speech at Wellesley in I think 1991 [ed. note: 1990], in which she said: At the end of the day, it wont matter if you got a raise, it wont matter if you wrote a great book, if you are not also someone who values relationships. She got a standing ovation after, [even though] there was a lot of concern and some protest about her being invited to come speak.

Ive thought a lot about that. Because it shouldnt be either/or. It should be that if you are someone who is defining yourself by what you do and what you accomplish, and that is satisfying, then more power to you; that is how you should be thinking about your life and living it. If you are someone who primarily defines your life in relationship to others, then more power to you. Live that life the way Barbara Bush lived that life, and how proud she was to do it.

But I think most of us as women in todays world end up in the middle: wanting to have relationships, wanting to invest in them, nurture them, but also pursuing our own interests.

I loved the picture of Sen. Tammy Duckworth coming onto the floor of the Senate with her baby. I think that sort of summed it all up. She is both: Shes a mom, shes a senator, shes a combat veteran. She is somebody whos trying to integrate all the various aspects of her life. Thats what Ive tried to do for a very long time, and its not easy. But it is something that Ive chosen to do, and I think is best for me, so Im going to keep doing it.

But I am going to change my Twitter account.

Do you remember Suzie OCallahan, when you were very young? Shes a little girl who has bullied you, and you came in crying to your mother. And your mother said, Go back out there, and if she hits you, you have my permission to hit her back.

Reading that, I thought about your most recent campaign. Did you hit back often enough, do you think?

I now think that I didnt.

In the book, I write about that one particular incident when [Trump] was stalking me on the debate stage. People are saying, You need to talk about the mistakes you made. Ive been pretty forthcoming about that, but one of the mistakes is that it was really difficult to figure out how to deal with the first reality TV candidate in a reality TV campaign.

Ive been around people who run for president. Ive supported them, obviously married one, worked for another. So I was used to what was the norm  only updating the technology, you do a better job communicating  but the norm was: You lay out what youre going to do, you defend it, and at some point, usually in the debates, one of the questioners really nails you down. Like, Okay, you say youre going to give us universal health care coverage. How are you going to do it? How are you going to pay for it?

We didnt really get a lot of that in the campaign, because the overwhelming story was my candidacy and his behavior. So we were always trying to figure out how to break through.

On that debate stage, I remember so well thinking, What do I do? I did practice to say what I wanted to say in the short period of time we were given, and all of a sudden  I know what hes doing. Hes trying to intimidate me, but hes also sending a message to the audience. This is what a president looks like. Its a guy who is going to overpower people and be dominant.

So Im thinking, What, do I turn around? Do I say, Back up, you creep? But by then, I had enough experience. The coverage of it would have been, She cant take the pressure. Or, She got angry. I say things in a normal tone and Im always amazed when the press says, She was so angry! [Joking] You havent seen anything yet.

I was really struggling with it, and I concluded, as I was, I think, expecting myself to, Okay. You just have to be calm and controlled. Ultimately, what the country wants is somebody who is not going to be blowing up in the Oval Office. They want somebody who is going to be in control of their problems. As you know, that did not work out so good.