George H.W. Bush was admitted to a hospital Sunday for a blood infection, and the 93-year-old former president is now in intensive care. The timing is unsettling: It happened the day after the funeral of his wife, former first lady Barbara Bush, who died at 92 of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and congestive heart failure.

But could the first event really have caused the other?

Its long been known that widowhood can increase the risk of hospitalization and dying. In one nationally representative study of the widowhood effect, researchers found the death of a wife was linked with an 18 percent increase in mortality for men, and the death of a husband was linked with a 16 percent boost in mortality for women.

The reasons for this are complicated and still mysterious. There is a condition called broken heart syndrome, also known as stress or Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Yes, you can literally die from a broken heart.

In these cases, taxing events  even joyous ones  cause stress hormones to surge in a way that can lead to an abnormal heart contraction. This can cause chest pain in the acute setting and lead to heart failure in both the short and long term, explained Julie Clary, chief cardiology fellow at the Krannert Institute of Cardiology at Indiana University.

Other scientific research has repeatedly shown that our health is incredibly fragile after weve endured an emotional upheaval, especially the death of a loved one. Losing a loved one can mean losing the routines we depend on for stable health.

But not all causes of death affect widows equally, and different groups seem to be disproportionately affected by the phenomenon. As scientists have tried to tease out these associations, theyve learned that the widowhood effect is a lot more complicated than they originally thought.

Yale University professor Nicholas Christakis had a great Twitter thread on the nuances of the science:

In one of his papers, published in 2008 in the American Journal of Public Health, he and his co-authors wrote that the way a spouse dies can change the surviving partners mortality risk. Interestingly, the highest risk of death for widowed men is a wife who dies from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD  one of Barbara Bushs causes of death. A surviving husband is also at a high risk of dying from sepsis  what H.W. Bush has been diagnosed with  after the loss of a wife.

But its not just death: Widows are at a higher risk of being hospitalized after losing their partners. Interestingly, losing an ex-wife isnt as deadly as losing a current wife, and white couples have a much higher widowhood effect than black couples, for complex reasons, Christakis tweeted. Men are also more susceptible to the widowhood effect than women.

We cant pretend to know what exactly is behind Bushs poor health this week. As John Mandrola, electrophysiologist and chief cardiology correspondent for Medscape, said, Its important to say in the case of [Bush] that the most likely cause is probably frailty induced infection  dying of old age. But it wouldnt be unusual at all if the stress from his wifes death was accelerating the process. The couple had been married for 73 years.

If theres an upshot to these studies, its this: The relationships we have with loved ones matter deeply to our health.

And strong bonds with others are associated with a great many positive things. The fortitude of social connections is a predictor of resistance to Alzheimers and overall mental health. Studies find people with strong social bonds tend to live longer than others. In contrast, some experts say loneliness is as bad for the heart as smoking.

Humans are social creatures; our entire psychology is built on coexisting with one another. Social relationships guide our decisions to join groups, go to war, gain status, empathize, punish, marry, and mate. Having evolved this way means we can suffer without the companionship of others  and thrive when we have it.