Donald Trumps budget proposal, unveiled on Monday, revived his calls for big cuts to domestic programs that benefit the poor and middle class, such as food stamps, as well as plans to entirely eliminate several arts and earth sciences funding.

The president, who is looking for large increases in military spending, is also proposing work requirements for several federal programs including housing subsidies and Medicaid. The budget plan wont be taken up by Congress unchanged but is being seen as the latest snapshot of his priorities.

Democrats swiftly criticized the plan. John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said: The Trump budget proposal makes clear his desire to enact massive cuts to health care, anti-poverty programs and investments in economic growth to blunt the deficit-exploding impact of his tax cuts for millionaires and corporations.

Trumps plan involves a 2019 deficit of $984bn, though White House budget director Mick Mulvaney has admitted $1.2tn is a more plausible estimate. The plan is estimated to add $7tn to the national deficit. On Tuesday, the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats, told Congress the ballooning deficit was one of the gravest threats facing US national and economic security.

Many of the Trump administrations proposals stand no chance of passage in Congress, where lawmakers have already defied him over last years budget. But the plans signal his intent for the direction of the US.

Critics have pointed to Kansas as an example of what can happen when you slash taxes, regulations and services in an attempt to spur growth. Kansas has gone all but broke after years of such tax and service cuts, its school system has run out of funding, lawmakers have cut into university and healthcare funds; and the states credit rating downgraded. Since the governor promised 100,000 jobs in 2014, the state added little more than 10,000 private-sector jobs, with hiring at 0.4% in 2017.

When the state enacted tax increases last year, with Republicans joining Democrats to override the governors veto, one Kansan reflected: It just didnt work. This was a terrible experiment that has left our state unable to do what it is supposed to do. 



Read more: Kansass ravaged economy a cautionary tale as Trump plans huge tax cuts for rich

The Trump administration has proposed a plan to replace the US food stamp program, called Snap, with an Americas Harvest Box shipped to families doors, including canned fruits, beans and meats, cereal, peanut butter, shelf-stable milk and other dry goods.

As of February last year, about 42 million Americans received food stamp assistance, which cost almost $71bn over the course of 2016. Nearly three-quarters of all recipient families have children, and more than a quarter include seniors or people with disabilities. The Trump proposal appears to have no provisions for allergies, problems with the mail, families without a steady address, homeless families, animal incursions into the box, shipping costs, or the question of fresh fruit and produce.

Read more: Food stamps a lifeline for Americas poor Trump wants to cut



In 2016, some 73 million Americans relied on Medicaid, a program that also finances half of all births around the country. An additional 43 million rely on Medicare, a program for the elderly that amounts to 15% of federal spending. The programs helps the poor and elderly pay for basic services such as asthma medicine; critical procedures such as surgery; and medication for mental health conditions, such as depression. The US spends more on healthcare than an other OECD country, without as high a level of treatment, according to a 2003 paper.

The Trump administration has proposed major cuts to Medicaid, and called for discussion of changes to Medicare but does not specify the changes. The plan would put a greater burden on states to pay for healthcare costs, and it calls on Congress to create new rules that let states opt out of providing some benefits.

Read more: Trump supporters in the heartland fear being left behind by GOP health plan



Under the proposed budget, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) would take a 14% cut, even more than the Trump administration requested last year. The plan would eliminate a $2bn fund for housing repairs, even though public housing is already in need of some $40bn in repairs  heating and water outages, ventilation and water safety, etc  according to the Washington Post.

The cuts to housing aid would affect hundreds of thousands of Americans, if not millions, stretching from Californias major cities through the deep south, Appalachia, across the rural heartland and up through New England.

Read more: A journey through America with the UNs expert on poverty

The Trump administration has again called for cuts to a program that delivers meals to senior citizens and disabled people, as it did last year. Reporter Jamiles Lartey, who has volunteered with the program, wrote then that it would be a disaster for the countrys most vulnerable.

Read more: Is Meals on Wheels about to become a fatality of Trumps budget?