The Trump administration is attempting to speed up or even sweep away various environmental reviews in its plan to fix Americas crumbling infrastructure and construct a wall along the border with Mexico.



The White Houses infrastructure plan targets what it calls inefficiencies in the approval of roads, bridges, airports and other projects. It proposes a 21-month limit for environmental reviews of projects that potentially threaten endangered species or fragile habitats, along with curbs on federal agencies ability to raise objections to new construction.

In a meeting with state and local officials on Monday, Trump said were going to get your permits very quickly. The president, who mentioned he was able to push through the building of an ice rink in New Yorks Central Park within a few months, said he will speed the permit approval process from 10 years to two years, and maybe even to one year.

The campaign to fast-track development over concerns has been picked up by Trumps lieutenants. Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has attempted to quicken the pace even further, telling the same group that the EPA will process every permit, up or down, within six months by the end of 2018.

The administration has sought to completely cast aside environmental considerations when it comes to its controversial border wall. It recently acquired a waiver for the third time in order to speed construction of 20 miles of the wall in New Mexico, and Trump has rescinded an Obama-era rule that demanded officials consider sea level rise and other climate change factors in federally-funded projects.

Environmentalists have warned that Trumps agenda will place extra pressure on endangered species and risk exacerbating hazards, such as flooding, by failing to factor climate change.

A recent report by the Center for Biological Diversity found that the border wall risks the habitat of dozens of species, including the arroyo toad, the Peninsular bighorn sheep and the jaguar, which was once driven out of the south-western US but has been spotted again in recent years due to the northward migration from a group located around 100 miles south of the border in Sonora, Mexico.

A coalition of conservation groups said Americans are overwhelmingly opposed to any sidestepping of the Endangered Species Act, Clean Water Act or National Environmental Policy Act.

President Trumps dangerous proposal would hand out massive subsidies for wealthy developers to build roads and bridges without any regard to the impacts of hurricanes, fires, or rising seas, the groups said in a joint statement.

By rubber stamping permits for corporations to build oil pipelines, dams, and toxic waste dumps, gutting environmental and labor laws, and severely limiting the publics ability to hold government accountable will only make our communities, and our nation, a more dangerous place.

Meanwhile, the White Houses 2019 budget proposal has outlined slashing the Environmental Protection Agencys funding by a third and cutting the department of the the interiors budget by 16%. Congress has the ultimate say on the nations budget, however, and it is unlikely lawmakers will enact to such deep budget reductions.