(CNN) Survivors of the deadly shooting rampage at a Parkland, Florida, high school led thousands Saturday in March for Our Lives on Washington, delivering impassioned pleas to the nation for stricter gun control laws.

Building on the momentum of last week's National School Walkout , these members of a generation raised with gun violence have rallied Americans around their cause while honoring the 17 students and faculty members killed February 14 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

The main event started at noon, with participants gathering hours earlier on Pennsylvania Avenue near the US Capitol.

As the crowds began arriving Saturday morning, the march turned into a massive standing-room-only rally. The resounding message: Washington's inaction on the scourge of gun violence is no longer acceptable.

"To the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down, stay silent and wait your turn, welcome to the revolution," Marjory Stoneman Douglas student Cameron Kasky told the throngs in Washington.

"Either represent the people or get out. Stand for us or beware."

"Nicholas, we are all here for you," he said. "Happy birthday."

Parkland student David Hogg told the massive crowd near the Capitol that "you can hear the people in power shaking" with the approach of midterm elections.

"They've gotten used to being protective of their position, the safety of inaction," he said, before issuing a warning to candidates supported by the National Rifle Association.

"To those politicians supported by the NRA that allow the continued slaughter of our children and our future, I say get your resumes ready."

Parkland survivor Emma Gonzalez recalled how the massacre took about six minutes, 20 seconds. She remembered her fallen classmates. She enumerated some ordinary things they will never do again.

"Since the time I came out here, it has been 6 minutes 20 seconds, and the shooter has ceased shooting and will soon abandon his rifle, blend in with the students as they escape and walk free an hour before arrest," she said.

"Fight for your lives before it is someone else's job."

"We might still be in elementary school, but we know," she said. "We know life isn't equal for everyone. And we know what's right and wrong. We also know that we stand in the shadow of the Capitol. And we know that we have seven short years until we, too, have the right to vote."

Singer Andra Day joined Baltimore's Cardinal Shehan School Choir on stage to sing "Rise up" before the Washington crowd.

Chants of "We want change!" rose over the capital after a closing performance by singer Jennifer Hudson, whose mother, brother and nephew were shot and killed in 2008 by her former brother-in-law.

"This is what we can do," he said, "so I'm here to do it."

Earlier, a normally bustling swath of Manhattan went quiet during a moment of silence as the names of the Parkland victims were read.

In Boston, march organizers asked participants older than 21 to take their places behind students spearheading the struggle.

Even as far away as Spain, young people such as Lucia Smith, 6, received an early introduction to political activism. She marched with her mother, Aiko Smith, near the US Embassy in Madrid. The girl carried a sign saying: "Your right to rifles. My right to life. Choose."

On a bus with about 250 students bound for Washington from Pittsburgh, chaperone Justin Cooper said he grew up in a region known for hunting but realizes America's gun culture needs to change.

"Our youth are being confronted with these shootings and all the violence, and I think they're looking at it and saying most people support some kind of change ... but yet our laws don't quite seems to be working with the people," Cooper said. "So the youth of this country said, 'Enough is enough.' The kids are running all this."

Carol Speaks sat on the bus next to her grandson, whose brother was gunned down in Pittsburgh in 2013. Three years earlier, she had lost her son to gun violence, she said. Both cases remain unsolved.

"It happens so often in our neighborhoods," she said of gun violence. "These guns are so easy to get. ... A lot of times people don't act on things until it touches your doorstep and then it's kind of late."

"We lost 20 children and 6 adults, 154 bullets in five minutes, and nothing was done," she said.

"We had voices and we advocated ... but if these kids now can make the voice that makes the change, we have to do this. Adults need to get on board with them and follow them because they're speaking the truth."

In Boston, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School graduate Leslie Chiu said the march was about all gun violence, not just school shootings.

"This is not just in Parkland," she said. "It is in every community, especially those of color. ... This is not a moment. This is a movement."

Former President Barack Obama also voiced his support, writing on Twitter: "Michelle and I are so inspired by all the young people who made today's marches happen. Keep at it. You're leading us forward. Nothing can stand in the way of millions of voices calling for change."

Calderon and other Marjory Stoneman Douglas survivors attended a #NeverAgain -- as their movement is known -- rally this week at Washington's Thurgood Marshall Academy, where two students were killed in separate neighborhood shootings in the last year.

"Every single day you wake up and it might be a thought in your head, 'I might die today,'" Calderon told the students.

"I only had to go through it once. You guys go through it every single day. This isn't a discussion anymore. This is action because that's what we need."