Dianne Feinstein has for the first time failed to win the endorsement of the California Democratic party as she seeks a fifth term in the US Senate.

Activists at the state party convention this weekend were more eager to back her primary challenger Kevin de Leon, the California senate leader who is presenting himself as a fresh face with stronger progressive credentials.

However, he too failed to earn the 60% support needed to win the endorsement. Neither candidate will get extra campaign cash leading into the June primary.

The primary system in heavily Democratic California allows the two highest vote-getters to advance to the general election, regardless of party identification. There is no Republican candidate, meaning a showdown between de Leon and Feinstein was likely from the start.

None of the four Democrats running to succeed Jerry Brown as governor secured an endorsement.

Lt Gov Gavin Newsom, a former San Francisco mayor crafting himself as a warrior for progressive ideals, took 39% with state treasurer John Chiang and former state schools chief Delaine Easton not far behind. Former Los Angeles mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, courting more moderate and even conservative voters, won just 9%.

Party leaders also implored activists to rally behind one candidate in US House races with as many as seven Democratic hopefuls, warning a failure to unite could boost Republicans. 



The battle between Feinstein and de Leon underscores tensions still simmering after the 2016 Democratic presidential primary, in which former first lady, New York senator and secretary of state Hillary Clinton beat a strong challenge from Bernie Sanders, an independent democratic socialist from Vermont.

Feinstein, 84, first ran for US Senate in 1994 and has never faced a credible primary challenger. She has touted her long record in Washington and seniority on important committees and highlighted her track record fighting for a ban on assault weapons, including her successful 1994 bill to do so, and her work to protect US gymnasts from sexual assault.

De Leon, who authored sanctuary state legislation to limit state authorities cooperating with federal immigration officials, argued that Feinstein has lost touch with progressive values and has not fought hard enough for young migrants brought to the country illegally.

It should never take a primary challenge for Californias leadership to stand up for California values, he told delegates ahead of the vote.

Feinstein voted against two federal spending measures that left out deportation protections for dreamers. Some activists felt those were forced votes.

She shows up now that shes being challenged, said Ana Gonzalez of San Bernardino County.

Feinsteins backers downplayed her failure to win the endorsement, saying she remains popular among the wider electorate and has millions of dollars needed to run a successful campaign.



I think were in good shape, said her political strategist, Bill Carrick.

De Leon called the result an astounding rejection of politics as usual and a boost to his campaigns momentum.

He did not appear to lose support over a sexual misconduct scandal at the California state capitol, under his leadership. His former roommate, Tony Mendoza, resigned on Thursday after an investigation concluded he likely sexually harassed six women. De Leon had called for Mendoza to be expelled.