In a long-awaited memo released on Saturday, Democrats on the House intelligence committee defended official investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.



Donald Trump duly responded on Twitter, calling the Democratic memo a total political and legal BUST that he said just confirms all of the terrible things that were done.

Investigations into Russian election meddling include the question of whether any Trump aides colluded in such efforts.

Trump has called the investigations a witch hunt and insisted there was no collusion. Some Republicans in Congress have sought to defend the president by attacking investigations by congressional committees, the FBI and special counsel Robert Mueller.

Releasing his partys document on Saturday, Adam Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House intelligence panel, said in a tweet: Some time ago, Republicans on our committee released a declassified memo that omitted and distorted key facts in order to mislead the public and impugn the integrity of the FBI. We can now tell you what they left out.



Schiffs tweet contained a link to the 10-page, partially redacted document, which was posted to the panels website.

The Democratic memo criticised the Republican memo as a transparent effort to undermine investigations. The memo also defended the FBIs obtaining of warrants for temporary surveillance of Carter Page, an aide to Trumps election campaign whom the Democrats said the FBI assessed to be an agent of the Russian government.

The release came after weeks of argument over how much of the Democratic document would be redacted. The White House objected to its release on 9 February, citing national security concerns. Democrats then negotiated with the FBI on what should be blacked out.



Trump had less concern about the earlier classified memo written by Republicans, known after the intelligence committee chairman as the Nunes memo, which he declassified on 2 February despite strong objections from the FBI. Trump claimed the memo vindicated him. Some Republicans disagreed.

In the GOP memo, Republicans took aim at the FBI and the justice department over the use of information from a former British spy, Christopher Steele, in obtaining a secret warrant to monitor Page.



The warrant was obtained under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or Fisa. The main allegation in the Republican document was that the FBI and justice department did not tell the court enough about Steeles anti-Trump bias or that his work was funded in part by Hillary Clintons campaign and the Democratic National Committee.

They argued that the reliance on Steeles material amounted to an improper politicization of the governments surveillance powers.

The Democratic memo countered that the justice department disclosed the assessed political motivation of those who hired him and that Steele was likely hired by someone looking for information that could be used to discredit then-candidate Trumps campaign.

Republicans said that was not enough, since the Clinton campaign and the DNC were not named. Trump himself seized on the point in a tweet on Saturday evening: Dem Memo: FBI did not disclose who the clients were  the Clinton Campaign and the DNC. Wow!

Carl Tobias, a law professor from the University of Richmond, said the Democratic memo placed much that had transpired in context and helped US citizens to sort out the truth.

He added: The memo also convincingly refutes the argument that the DOJ and the FBI were duplicitous in their request to the Fisa court.

Trump also attacked Schiff, who he called a total phony. Schiff responded: Wait a minute, Mr President. Am I a phony, or sleazy, a monster or little? Surely you know the key to a good playground nickname is consistency. I thought you were supposed to be good at this.

Schiff also said the Democratic memo confirms the FBI acted appropriately and that Russian agents approached two of your advisors, and informed your campaign that Russia was prepared to help you by disseminating stolen Clinton emails.

Four former Trump aides have been indicted by Mueller. They are Michael Flynn, Trumps first national security adviser; Paul Manafort, his second campaign manager; Rick Gates, Manaforts deputy; and George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser.

Flynn, Gates and Papadopoulous have accepted plea deals, seeking lighter sentences in return for cooperation. Manafort remains under house arrest on charges including money laundering and bank and tax fraud.

In a statement issued on Friday, he said: Notwithstanding that Rick Gates pled today, I continue to maintain my innocence. I had hoped and expected my business colleague would have had the strength to continue the battle to prove our innocence. For reasons yet to surface he chose to do otherwise.

This month, Mueller also indicted 13 Russian nationals alleged to have taken part in a huge effort to influence the election in favour of Trump.

On Saturday, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said: As the President has long stated, neither he nor his campaign ever colluded with a foreign power during the 2016 election, and nothing in todays memo counters that fact.