Donald Trump called James Comey an a weak and untruthful slimeball on Friday morning after the first reports were released from the former FBI directors new book, in which he likens the president to a mob boss.

James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR, Trump tweeted. Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired. He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH.

In his next tweet, Trump wrote: He is a weak and untruthful slime ball who was a terrible Director of the FBI. His handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case will go down as one of the worst botch jobs of history. It was my great honor to fire James Comey!

Comey said during congressional testimony last year that he helped to leak details of a memo about Trump to the New York Times, but he denied that it contained classified information.

Earlier on Friday morning, ABC News released the first clip from its upcoming interview with Comey, which will be aired on Sunday night.

In the clip, Comey, sitting in a blue shirt and blazer across from interviewer George Stephanopolous and speaking calmly, discussed the allegation, found in the dossier on his links to Russia compiled by the former British spy Christopher Steele, that Trump invited prostitutes to his hotel room in Moscow during the Miss Universe event in 2013.

Comey said that Trump asked him: Do I look like a guy who needs hookers?

Comey went on: And then he says something that distracted me because he said, you know, If theres even a 1% chance my wife thinks thats true, thats terrible.

And I remember thinking, How could your wife think theres a 1% chance you were with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow?

Comey said: Im a flawed human being, but there is literally zero chance that my wife would think that was true. So, what kind of marriage to what kind of man does your wife think theres only a 99% chance you didnt do that?

Asked if he believed Trumps denial, Comey said: I honestly never thought this words would come out of my mouth, but I dont know whether the current president of the United States was with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow in 2013, he said. Its possible, but I dont know.

Comey was also asked if he should have told Trump that the Steele dossier contained research partly funded by Democrats. I dont know the answer to that. It wasnt necessary for my goal, which was to alert him that we had this information.

Comeys book, A Higher Loyalty, out next Tuesday, is published 11 months after he was fired by Trump, who allegedly tried to lean on him to shut down an investigation into his former national security adviser Michael Flynn.

Comeys dismissal triggered the appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel to oversee the investigation into Russian election meddling and alleged collusion between Moscow and Trump aides. Trump has denied collusion and called the investigation a witch-hunt.

In Comeys book, obtained by the Guardian from a bookseller in New York, the former FBI chief describes his first trip to Trump Tower in January 2017, to brief the president-elect about the Steele dossier.

Comey writes that Trump appeared shorter than he seemed on a debate stage with Hillary Clinton. He adds: His face appeared slightly orange, with bright white half-moons under his eyes where I assume he placed small tanning goggles, and impressively coiffed, bright blond hair, which on close inspection looked to be all his. I remember wondering how long it must take him in the morning to get that done.

Comey then describes discussions by Trumps team of the political implications of the dossier and possible strategies when it made the news media, all while intelligence community leaders remained in the room.

Holy crap, Comey writes, they are trying to make each of us an amica nostra  a friend of ours. To draw us in. As crazy as it sounds, I suddenly had the feeling that, in the blink of an eye, the president-elect was trying to make us all part of the same family.

Comey, who likens Trumps presidency to a forest fire, repeatedly in the 304-page book paints Trump as a mafia-style boss.

For example, in a discussion of a White House meeting with Trump and then chief of staff Reince Priebus in February 2017, Comey says that because he never stops talking, Trump pulls all those present into a silent circle of assent.

The encounter left me shaken, he writes. I had never seen anything like it in the Oval Office. As I found myself thrust into the Trump orbit, I once again was having flashbacks to my earlier career as a prosecutor against the mob.

Of Trumps now famous demand over dinner at the White House in January 2017, I need loyalty, Comey writes: To my mind, the demand was like Sammy the Bulls Cosa Nostra induction ceremony  with Trump in the role of the family boss, asking me if I have what it takes to be a made man.

Describing a visit to the FBIs Manhattan office after the Trump Tower session, Comey writes: After the uncomfortable conversation Id just had, it was like taking a shower.

Of his firing, in May 2017, Comey says he first thought news of it  which those in the room as he gave a speech in Los Angeles saw first on a TV screen behind him  was a practical joke.

I now saw the same words, he writes. COMEY FIRED. I wasnt laughing any longer.

In an epilogue, Comey passes judgment on Trumps character. Writing that our country is paying a high price for the 2016 election, he says: This president is unethical, and untethered to the truth and institutional values. His leadership is transactional, ego driven, and about personal loyalty.

The book, an instant bestseller, will be supported by a media blitz. In response, the Republican party has organized a Trumpian scheme to attack Lyin Comey  and has set up a rebuttal website.