House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis net favorability rating now sits at -24, just shy of her historic low -27 favorability rating in October 2010  the month before voters handed control of Congress to Republicans.

The latest Gallup poll belies Democrats predicted blue wave in the 2018 midterm elections, though it also reveals the publics dislike of politicians in general.

The Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, Republican Paul Ryan, who announced earlier this year that he is retiring in January 2019, has the most positive ratings: 40% favorable and 45% unfavorable. His resulting net -5 image score compares with his Senate counterpart, Majority Leader Mitch McConnells -26. Across the aisle, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosis net favorability of -24 is similar to McConnells, while Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumers -15 is somewhat better. ...

The current net favorable rating for McConnell is the historical worst for him since Gallups first reading in 2010, and Pelosis is close to her -27 record worst in October 2010.

The situation portends bad things for Democrats in 2018, as the only Democrat America dislikes more than Pelosi is Hillary Clinton, who is viewed positively by a mere 27 percent, according to an April Wall Street Journal poll.

In November 2010  a month after Pelosis historic low  Democrats suffered some of the biggest election losses since the Great Depression. Republicans gained 63 seats in the House to take the majority  the largest swing in a midterm since 1938  and also picked up six seats in the Senate to expand the GOP majority in the upper chamber.

Currently, Pelosi has the worst cross-party favorability rating of all four legislative leaders, with a whopping 83 percent of Republicans who view her unfavorably. But the Gallop data shows even many folks in her own party arent big fans.

Pelosi has a 55% favorable rating among Democrats. This percentage matches the lowest favorability recorded for her in 2009 among her own party, according to the pollster. Over the past 10 years, her rating among Democrats reached a high of 66% several times.

Its hardly surprising, considering that a growing list of Democratic candidates for Congress from across the country have publicly denounced Pelosi and vowed not to vote for her as Speaker of the House if Democrats take control in November.

Politico identified more than 20 Democratic candidates who have vowed not to support Pelosi as Speaker.

A trend that started in earnest with Rep. Conor Lamb (D-Pa.), who won a special election deep in Trump country, has spread rapidly to encompass a growing cadre of candidates  many in must-win districts for Democrats  that threatens Pelosis nearly sixteen-year grip on the partys leadership, according to the site.

An unnamed Democratic pollster who advises House candidates to disavow Pelosi told Politico with very few exceptions, the biggest hurdle, the biggest vulnerability of Democratic candidates is Nancy Pelosi, and the strongest card the Republicans can play is attaching a candidate to Pelosi.

Most of this is about mitigating and diluting the effectiveness of that attack, the pollster said.