Coral Springs police officers were stunned and upset to learn that four Broward County Sheriffs Deputies were stationed outside the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and had not entered to face an active shooter, sources with the Coral Springs, FL police department told CNN.

As the details behind the Police response to the Valentines Day massacre emerge, it appears that the Coral Springs Police department  which sent 130 officers to the scene  put their lives on the line while Broward County officers simply waited for backup as the scene unfolded, in what some Coral Springs officials perceived to be a derilection of duty.

The four Broward Sheriffs deputies, including fired High School Resource Officer Scot Peterson, had their pistols drawn from behind the safety of their vehicles, and not one of them had gone into the school, according to shocked Coral Springs police.

The Coral Springs officers, meanwhile, entered the building soon after they arrived on scene to confront the shooter, while the four Broward County Sheriffs deputies remained outside until two more officers arrived on scene along with an officer from neighboring Sunrise city.

According to the Coral Springs Chief of Police, Anthony Pustizzi, roughly 40 of the 130 officers rushed into the building after the initial officers responded, where they carried 23 victims were carried out to medics, 20 of whom survived.

Two days after the shooting, Putstizzi sent an internal email to his officers obtained by CNN which reads I understand that another agency has given the impression that it had provided the majority of the rescue efforts, and that the tremendous work of the Coral Springs Police and Fire Departments has not been recognized. Please know that this issue will be addressed, and the truth will come out in time.

Meanwhile, the Coral Springs Sheriff has publicly commented on the shooting. Ive been a police officer for 30 years, Pustizzi said at a press conference. You know, humans arent meant to see this kind of tragedy, but the officers that went in there, the dispatchers that heard it, the firemen that treated the people  you know, theres obviously a lot of support that needs to be given to them, as well.

Im thinking, you know, this is a real one. You train for this day. You hope it never happens, but you only have one way and thats straight in, and you hope that a bullet doesnt find you, as well, but thats a possibility, said Pustizzi.

Meanwhile, Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel gave a heartfelt press conference yesterday in which he condemned the one fired resource officer caught on camera waiting outside the high school, Scot Peterson.

Speaking at a press conference, Broward Sheriff Scott Israel said the on duty officer at Stoneman never went in. Israel said he was devastated after watching the video showing the deputy taking a position outside the Western side of Building 12 while shots rang out, and he never went in despite having a clear view of the entrance.

I think he remained outside upwards of four minutes, Israel said.

What I saw was a deputy arrive ... take up a position and he never went in, Israel said adding Peterson should have went in. Addressed the killer. Killed the killer. Peterson was suspended without pay, after which he resigned.

County Superintendent Robert Runcie said, Im in shock and Im outraged to no end that he could have made a difference in all this.Its really disturbing that we had a law enforcement individual there specifically for this reason, and he did not engage. He did not do his job. Its one of the most unbelievable things Ive ever heard.

Speaking at CPAC, President Trump called the sheriffs deputy a coward for not going in and facing the active shooter.

But he certainly did a poor job. Theres no question about that. He was there for five minutes, for five minutes. That was during the entire shooting. He heard it right from the beginning. So he certainly did a poor job. But thats a case where somebody was outside, theyre trained, they didnt act properly or under pressure or they were a coward. It was a real shock to the police department.

Meanwhile, Sheriff Israel also went on a CNN town hall and blamed the NRA for promoting firearms...

... even though just a few months earlier, the same sheriff said that if you have a lone wolf assassin thats committed to commit great carnage and killing people, theres nothing you can do about it. Watch 1 minute into the clip below