With the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh for supreme court justice, Trump is set to cement his significant influence on the highest court in the land. Once Kavanaugh is confirmed, the probable outcome given the Republican controlled Senate, Trump will have made as many appointments in two years as Barack Obama did in two full terms.

The result of those nominations has left us with a supreme court that leans towards the right, with a majority of sitting justices nominated by Republican presidents. This wind of change brings a conservative sway for decades that will only get stronger if Trump, who is not even halfway into his first term, could secure a third pick.

A position on the supreme court becomes available when one of the nine sitting justices resigns, retires or dies. Once a position becomes vacant, the president nominates someone whom the Senate will then either confirm or reject. It took four months for Neil Gorsuch, Trumps first pick for the supreme court, to be confirmed. In order for Trump to lock down a third pick, a spot would have open up by July 2020, before the election in November of that year. So whose spot is most likely to be vacated?

Justice Anthony Kennedy, whose recently announced retirement created the spot for Kavanaugh, retired at 81  an age Breyer will hit before 2020. Kennedy's retirement was far from an outlier, with 80 being the average retirement age for the last 11 justices. There's a slim chance that Breyer might want to do the same. However, given his history of voting with the liberal end of the bench, he'll more than likely try to hold on and hand his position off to a Democratic president.

Ruth Bader Ginsburg, at 85, is already the fourth-oldest supreme court justice of all time. However, recent comments suggest she wont be stopping there, citing John Paul Stevens, who retired at a spritely 90-years-old in 2010, as her model. Plus, despite her age, she was nominated quite late and has only been in the job for 24 years. Thats three years less than the average.

How long can Ginsburg go? Its tough to hide from the fact that shes the oldest current justice and is already five years over the average retirement age for the court. However, anyone who saw her workout plan in the recent documentary RBG would struggle to argue that she isnt fighting fit. Ginsburg has also recently brought four new law clerks onboard until 2020 and has been on the record of saying As long as I can do the job full steam, I will be here.

Justice Thomas is now the longest serving Breyer and Ginsburg are both Democrat-nominated judges but theres a small chance that we could see a retirement on the Republican-nominated side. Clarence Thomas, while relatively young at 70, has already served for 26 years, just one less than the average and four less than the recent retiree Kennedy. So its entirely reasonable that Thomas believes hes served his time. If he decided this on Trumps watch, the Republicans, while they wouldnt gain a seat on the conservative side, would be able to lock another seat down with a younger judge.

However, the entire scenario changes if the Democrats manage to flip the Senate at the midterms in November. If a seat were then to become vacant, the Democrats could choose to block any nomination that Trump makes. And they would likely feel justified by recent precedent  after the Republicans refused to confirm Obamas third pick in Merrick Garland in 2016.