Canadian media have reacted angrily to US President Donald Trump's spat with the country's leader Justin Trudeau following last week's G7 summit.

Mr Trump posted a string of tweets attacking the Canadian prime minister's personality just hours after leaving the divisive meeting in Quebec.

"[He] acted so meek and mild," he said. "Very dishonest and weak."

Mr Trudeau has vowed retaliatory action next month over US tariffs on steel and aluminium.

The tweets Mr Trump posted after the G7 contained direct attacks on the Canadian PM.

Some of Canada's most widely read newspapers hit back with angry editorials.

"He sulked his way through the first part of the meeting, gave his delegation the OK to sign the summit's pallid final communique, then threw a hissy fit and tore it up," the Toronto Star said.

"It was both dishonest and amateurish."

The newspaper said Mr Trump "chose to make up his own facts" about tariffs and trade.

The Globe and Mail newspaper was equally strong, branding the spat "one of the most flagrant manufactured crises ever perpetrated by an American administration against an ally".

"Mr Trump set an antagonistic tone for the summit by announcing, just prior to it, steep tariffs on Canadian and European steel and aluminium," it said.

French language daily Le Journal de Montreal said Mr Trudeau "became the scapegoat of Donald Trump and his advisers".

A columnist for La Presse, another French-language daily, said Canada's relationship with the US has never been so threatened in the country's modern history.

"Unlike those who preceded him in recent decades, Donald Trump is no friend to Canada," writes Alexandre Sirois.

"He does not wish us well."

In Maclean's magazine, columnist Scott Gilmore called on Canadians to hit Mr Trump "where it hurts" by boycotting his businesses.

Even Mr Trudeau's political enemies leapt to his defence - the attack by the US president seems to have united usually warring factions.

On Monday, members of Parliament in Canada's House of Commons unanimously passed a motion in support of retaliatory measures against the US metals tariffs and to "reject disparaging and ad hominem statements by US officials which do a disservice to bilateral relations and work against efforts to resolve this trade dispute".

The leader of Canada's opposition Conservative Party accused the US of "divisive rhetoric and personal attacks".

Doug Ford, who was recently elected premier of Ontario, tweeted his support for Mr Trudeau.

Jason Kenney, the leader of the United Conservative Party, and leader of the opposition in the province of Alberta, tweeted out an old clip of former president Ronald Reagan saying that America's peaceful allies "are not our enemies".

Federal Green Party leader Elizabeth May said that all Canadian leaders should rally behind Mr Trudeau.

Mr Trump kept up his rhetoric from Singapore, where he is attending a summit with North Korea's Kim Jong-un, condemning allies for the level of their payments towards Nato.