Attorney General Jeff Sessions has reportedly put the White House on notice: If Rod Rosenstein goes, I might go, too.

The Washington Posts Sari Horwitz, Rosalind S. Helderman, Josh Dawsey, and Matt Zapotosky report that Sessions told White House counsel Don McGahn last weekend that if President Donald Trump fires Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein  the man in charge of overseeing special counsel Robert Muellers Russia investigation  Sessions might have to quit.

Sessionss warning apparently came after Trump grew furious at Rosenstein for approving the FBI raid on Trumps longtime attorney and fixer Michael Cohen. In a rambling session with reporters last Monday, the day of the Cohen raid, Trump attacked Rosenstein, bashed the Russia investigation as a witch hunt, and mused about possibly firing Mueller.

The Cohen raid is separate and unrelated to the Russia probe, and involves hush money Cohen is said to have paid women, including porn actress Stormy Daniels, to buy their silence about affairs they had with Trump. But Rosenstein, as deputy attorney general, was still the one who had to sign off on the FBI raid on Cohen. That seems to have reignited Trumps ire at Rosenstein.

But pressure on Rosenstein seems to have cooled in the intervening days, which might make Sessionss resignation threat moot. Theyve been saying Im going to get rid of them for the last three months, four months, five months, and theyre still here, Trump said Wednesday, at Mar-a-Lago, referring to Rosenstein and Mueller.

Its unclear just how serious Sessions is about possibly resigning if Trump fires Rosenstein. One source told the Washington Post that Sessions didnt so much threaten to quit as try to convey the untenable position that Rosensteins firing would put him in.

But Sessions isnt exactly at the top of the list of Trumps favored Cabinet members. The attorney general angered Trump when he recused himself from the Russia investigation, leaving Rosenstein in charge.

Sessions should have never recused himself, and if he was going to recuse himself, he should have told me before he took the job and I would have picked somebody else, Trump told the New York Times last July.

But Sessions and Rosenstein departing together would certainly throw the Justice Department into chaos; the top three jobs at the DOJ would lack permanent, Senate-confirmed appointees. (Rachel Brand, the Associate Attorney General and No. 3 at the DOJ, announced she was leaving in February.)

Sessionss attempt to be noble could backfire, accidentally solving one of Trumps biggest conundrums: how to make the Russia investigation go away.

Rosenstein is in charge of the Russia investigation after Sessionss recusal last year. That recusal makes Rod Rosenstein the acting attorney general on all matters Russia-related. But if Trump fires Rosenstein, the special counsel investigation falls to the next Senate-confirmed person in line, which, in this case, is Solicitor General Noel Francisco.

But if Sessions goes when Rosenstein goes, whoever becomes Sessionss temporary replacement  the acting attorney general  would now oversee Mueller and the Russia probe. Under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, Trump can fill that spot with any other Senate-confirmed person that he chooses  a loyalist, for example, like EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. That acting attorney general could fire Mueller, shut down his investigation, or curtail his mandate.

Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill are pushing forward legislation that would protect Robert Mueller in the event Trump attempted to get rid of him. Those bills are unlikely to go anywhere for now  though Congress might wake up to a potential crisis if Sessions and Rosenstein depart as a team.