CNN sent a reporter to the home of an old lady in Florida to harass her about Russian collusion.

Not content with wall to wall coverage of the evidence-free allegation that the Trump campaign worked with shadowy Russian entities to the detriment of Hillary Clinton, the news network is now apparently stalking private citizens.

Florine Gruen Goldfarb runs the Team Trump Broward County Facebook page, which CNN claims, posted numerous times about events that were promoted and encouraged by the Russians.

A CNN reporter turned up to doorstep Goldfarb, repeatedly attempting to get her to acknowledge she colluded with Russians.

Goldfarb responded by saying all the people who physically attended her meetings were Trump supporters, not Russian bots.

I dont want to have anything to do with you, Goldfarb tells the reporter, but he continues to confront her for over a minute.

We look forward to voting for Trump a second time. Keep badgering us  well vote, said Scott Presler.

CNN looks so pathetic harassing and accusing old ladies of being Russian collaborators, remarked another.

Congrats to CNN for tracking down and harassing this random grandma at her house. You guys are real heroes, commented Jimmy Princeton.

The entire operation CNN accuses Goldfarb of being embroiled in was run by the Internet Research Agency, a Kremlin-linked troll group that, according to CNN, Was designed to undermine the American political system.

However, according to The New Yorkers Adrian Chen, who first profiled the group in 2015, the Internet Research Agency amounts to little more than, 90 people with a shaky grasp of English and a rudimentary understanding of U.S. politics shitposting on Facebook.

Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president of advertising, also asserted, I have seen all of the Russian ads and I can say very definitively that swaying the election was *NOT* the main goal.

CNNs harassment of private citizens as a consequence of their Trump Derangement Syndrome is nothing new.

Last year, the news network threatened to reveal the identity of the man who created the infamous Trump/CNN wrestling meme that was tweeted by the president, asserting, CNN reserves the right to publish his identity if the individual failed to display enough remorse.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.