Confidential security assessments in the Environmental Protection Agency show no evidence of specific, credible, physical threats against administrator Scott Pruitt, despite claims that an unprecedented number of death threats justify his outsized security spending, according to a review by Senate Democrats.

Democrats on the Senate environment and public works committee wrote in a letter on Tuesday that they have reviewed security assessments describing 16 purported threats against Pruitt. They include public protests, criticism of Pruitts policies and other activities protected by the first amendment.

The letter from Tom Carper of Delaware and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island urged the committees Republican majority to begin oversight hearings into Pruitts unusual security precautions.

The committee chairman, John Barrasso, quickly rebuffed that request, saying no hearing on Pruitts security procedures will be held. Barrasso, a Wyoming Republican, lashed out at his Democratic colleagues, accusing Carper and Whitehouse of selectively quoting the documents and improperly disclosing law enforcement sensitive information without the approval of the EPA or the secret service.

The Associated Press reported on Friday that the EPA has spent about $3m on Pruitts security measures, which included flying first-class and using a full-time security detail of 20 armed officers.

EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox said last week there had been an unprecedented number of death threats against Pruitt and his family. Wilcox doubled down on that assertion on Tuesday, but did not immediately respond to a request from AP to release details of the specific incidents to which he was referring.

Donald Trump defended Pruitt in a tweet Saturday night, downplaying the ethical questions swirling around his embattled EPA chief. He added that Pruitts security spending was somewhat more than prior EPA chiefs, but said that Pruitt had received death threats because of his bold actions at EPA.

The Democrats said they found no records describing specific, credible threats against Pruitt. An internal EPA document recounted such threat as attempts by protesters to disrupt a speech and a post card sent to Pruitt that said: CLIMATE CHANGE IS REAL!!! We are watching you.

The Democrats also obtained an assessment, dated 14 February, from EPAs Office of Homeland Security Intelligence that concluded EPA intelligence has not identified any specific, credible, direct threat to the EPA administrator.

The internal review said an earlier threat assessment by Pruitts security team does not employ sound analysis or articulate relevant threat specific information appropriate to draw any resource or level of threat conclusions regarding the protection posture for the administrator.

Politico first reported on Tuesday that the career EPA security staffer who wrote the February memo, Mario Caraballo, was fired shortly after the Democrats account of it became public.

The Democratic senators called the timing of Caraballos firing deeply troubling.

This development underscores the need for the environment and public works committee to conduct effective oversight of the EPA to answer the serious questions that have come to light in recent days concerning management and ethical conduct by the administrator and his staff, Carper and Whitehouse said in a joint statement.

The AP reported on Friday that Pruitts concern with his safety came at a steep cost to taxpayers as his swollen security detail blew through overtime budgets and at times diverted officers away from investigating environmental crimes. Pruitts 20-member full-time detail is more than three times the size of his predecessors part-time security contingent.

The EPAs inspector general is currently auditing Pruitts security spending  one of at least five ongoing investigations by the agencys watchdog into spending and ethics issues surrounding the administrator. A GOP-led House oversight committee is also investigating Pruitts travel spending and the administrators bargain-priced rental of a $50-a-night Capitol Hill condo tied to a fossil fuels lobbyist.

Shortly after arriving in Washington, Pruitt, 49, demoted the career staff member heading his security detail and replaced him with EPA senior special agent Pasquale Nino Perrotta, a former Secret Service agent who operates a private security company.

Perrotta also signed off on new procedures that let Pruitt fly first-class on commercial airliners.