The White House changed its story on when it knew about allegations of domestic violence made against former White House staff secretary Rob Porter three times in 24 hours last week. On Tuesday, the FBI blew up the timeline again by saying that the White House knew the severity of the allegations in the summer of 2017  and put the Oval Office in even hotter water.

Last week, White House staff secretary Rob Porter left the White House after allegations of domestic violence made by his ex-wives became public. He held a senior position within the White House despite lacking a permanent security clearance, traveling with the president internationally, presenting him with confidential documents, and helping to write Trumps first State of the Union

On Thursday, deputy press secretary Raj Shah said the FBI never completed a background check into Porter  which would have uncovered a 2010 emergency protective order obtained by Porters former wife, Jennifer Willoughby:

To summarize, the allegations against Rob Porter are serious and deeply troubling. He did deny them. The incidents took place long before he joined the White House. Therefore, they were investigated as part of the background check, as this process is meant for such allegations. It was not completed, and Rob Porter has since resigned.

Now the FBI is saying thats not at all what happened. In a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing held Tuesday morning, FBI Director Christopher Wray told Sen. Ron Wyden that not only was the background check on Porter completed, it was completed in July 2017. The White House then asked for additional details, which it received in November.

Im quite confident that in this particular instance, the FBI followed the established protocols, Wray said.

With Wrays statements, there are at least four different accounts, from the Trump White House and the FBI, with three separate timelines of what the White House knew and when they knew it:

Heres the order in which events really happened  and how the White House has changed its story.

Its been nearly a week since the first allegations against Porter and the White House still hasnt answered critical questions about his exit from the White House.