"Let's do a World Cup of kits - that won't be too controversial, nobody will take it too seriously and it'll be fun." Or so we thought.

Brazil 1970 has beaten West Germany 1990 in the final of the BBC's World Cup of kits - but that doesn't tell the whole story.

BBC Sport users and social media followers selected their favourites - in their thousands - in five different rounds and joined in a lively debate on our live World Cup page.

Possibly the biggest shock was England's red 1966 away kit crashing out to Brazil in the semi-finals after brushing aside Netherlands 1978, Paraguay 2002 and Italy 1990 along the way.

You might wonder why England had to start by facing such an iconic jersey as that of the Dutch - well blame former England internationals Danny Mills and Stephen Warnock, who did the first-round draw...

A panel of BBC Sport journalists selected (we won't say agreed upon, more on that when we come to the next kit photo below) what they believed were the best 32 jerseys at any World Cup - but only one could be chosen from each country - with the draw unseeded.

Notable first-round casualties included the Dutch 1978 top, the USA's 'lively' 1994 away shirt, Peru's iconic 1978 jersey, Northern Ireland 1986 and Scotland 1978 - who lost to shock semi-finalists, Colombia 1990 away.

Wales 1958 and the Republic of Ireland 1990 went out in the last 16, along with the fancied Croatia 1998. Denmark's 1986 beauty was an unpopular quarter-final casualty and by that stage most people expected England to win - but you had other ideas.

Brazil beat England in their semi-final, with West Germany knocking out Colombia in the other.

Nick Bruzon: Only two man-made objects are visible from Outer Space. The Great Wall of China and the lion's head on Cameroon's Italia '90 shirt. It's an absolute thing of beauty, too. A modern day seventh wonder of the world. There'll be no justice if this doesn't win.

Davey R: Been in meeting all afternoon - checked in to see who Peru had got in the final of #worldcupofkits - what?!?! Where?! Madness. I demand a recount.

Our Colombia picture was of the famously wild-haired Carlos Valderrama - which influenced some people...

David Melton: Ok I admit it I'm voting England because it's England, and I voted Colombia because of Carlos' hair

Kieran, Glasgow: People clearly not realising that Valderrama's hair isn't part of the kit

Alex S: Never seen this France 1982 kit before but wow that's instantly the best looking footie top I've seen - would gladly wear it to my own wedding! Who voted against it?!

Matthew Vernon: Germany '90 v Argentina '86 tough for England fans!  But I'm not voting for that cheat, beautiful shirt or not.

But some people were happier to see England lose...

Phil Andrews: I may be berated for this, but the 1966 England away kit looks like a 3 t-shirt onto which my Nan sewed an England badge. Enduring image? Certainly. Best shirt? Sorry...

James Drewe-Smith: Finally the England shirt is out, been living on past glories for 50-odd years. Not even the best England shirt

And some people weren't happy with the eventual winner...

Matt Birch: As a totally unbiased German who owns a 1990 kit somewhere, this is a shambolic decision. It's the same colour Brazil have had for every World Cup... EVER!

Republic of Ireland 1990 beat USA 1994 away (61.6% of selections)