England will not sledge Australia about their ball-tampering humiliation when they meet in a five-match series which starts on Wednesday, says Eoin Morgan.

Skipper Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner were banned for a year by Cricket Australia for their part in the saga in South Africa in March.

"We play our cricket pretty hard, positively and aggressively, so we'll continue to do that," Morgan said.

Morgan also said his team are happy to shake hands with Australia.

New Australia captain Tim Paine introduced a team handshake before the final Test in South Africa as a "show of respect".

England skipper Morgan, 31, told BBC Sport: "It's important for the game to have a strong Australia side - we're more than happy to shake hands if that creates a different image for people."

Asked if England would reference the ball-tampering should they engage in any sledging, Morgan replied: "No. It probably could be ammunition (for them). It will be service as usual."

In addition to Smith and Warner's absence, Australia are without several key players through injury, with only three men from that tour of South Africa making the trip to England.

Fast bowling trio Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood, plus all-rounder Mitchell Marsh, are all absent.

A 5-0 series whitewash for England would see fifth-ranked Australia drop to sixth in the world for the first time since January 1984.

"It's a great opportunity for guys who wouldn't normally have got the opportunity to press some claims leading into next year's World Cup," said Paine, who will lead Australia for the first time in an ODI in Wednesday's opening match at The Oval.

Former Australia batsman Justin Langer has replaced Darren Lehmann, who resigned in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal, as head coach and has pledged his team will respect the line between banter and abuse.

Paine, whose team won their warm-up games against Sussex and Middlesex, insisted: "It's not so much creating a brand new culture, we know how to behave as men, but at times we've let ourselves down with a few little things."

Morgan's top-ranked side were beaten by Scotland on Sunday after the world number 13 team amassed 371-5 in Edinburgh and won by six runs.

"There is still a lot we need to learn," Morgan told BBC Sport.

"We need to expose some of our weaknesses in order to be in contention for the World Cup this time next year.

"It was really difficult to stop them scoring. Looking back at our bowling we probably missed our lines and lengths a little bit so we want to adjust that and we will have to be better against a strong Australian team."