Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn will appear in a Washington, DC, courtroom Tuesday morning for a hearing on the status of his case in the Russia investigation.

The reason for the hearing appears to be pretty banal. Flynn struck a plea deal with special counsel Robert Muellers team last year in exchange for his cooperation with the investigation. But Flynn hasnt been sentenced yet because Muellers investigation is still ongoing and Mueller is making use of the information Flynn is providing.

On June 29, though, lawyers for both Flynn and the Mueller probe made a slightly unusual joint filing. It said that they still werent ready to schedule a sentencing hearing for Flynn, but requested to start work on a pre-sentencing report anyway.

This is odd because normally, the court would do both of those things  schedule a sentencing hearing and start work on a pre-sentencing report  at the same time. Which is why Judge Emmet Sullivan scheduled todays hearing: to get a sense of why hes being asked to depart from the courts usual practice.

So why did Muellers and Flynns lawyers ask for this? Its not yet clear.

However, in recent weeks, some of Flynns relatives  such as his brother Joseph  have been publicly complaining that Flynns sentencing has been taking too long and that he is still being slammed by legal bills.

One possibility, then, is that Muellers team offered to throw Flynn a bone  saying that even though theyre not ready to sentence him, theyd ask the judge if they could start work on that pre-sentencing report, to help get the process rolling.

Judge Sullivan, however, seems to be wondering why Flynn should get special treatment. At todays hearing, well see if hes convinced.

Some on the right have speculated that something may have gone awry with Flynns case, and that perhaps his guilty plea might even be withdrawn.

But the vast majority of analysts  including even some conservatives favorably disposed to Flynn, such as National Reviews Andrew McCarthy  think thats unlikely.

He got up in court, pled guilty as charged, and provided the court with an explanation of why he was guilty, McCarthy recently wrote. Legally, it is almost impossible to un-ring that bell.

Indeed, theres been zero daylight between Muellers lawyers and Flynns lawyers in any of the public filings so far  including this one. The recent request that prompted this hearing was submitted by both of them together.

Furthermore, the fact that Flynn hasnt been sentenced yet isnt unusual. George Papadopoulos, who struck a plea before Flynn, only recently got a sentencing date on the calendar. Rick Gates, another cooperating witness for Mueller, hasnt had his sentencing scheduled yet either.

In the status report Mueller and Flynns attorneys have filed, the reason given to put off sentencing further has been that due to the status of the special counsels investigation hes not ready to be sentenced. That is: Mueller is still making use of the cooperation hes providing.

Of course, what exactly Mueller is doing with Flynns cooperation remains a tantalizing mystery. We havent seen any new charges result from information or testimony Flynn has provided just yet. But were unlikely to learn anything new about that topic at Tuesdays hearing  Mueller will make that clear when hes ready.