Heres a short news clip of Robert F Kennedy advocating legislation to make it harder for young people and the mentally unwell to get hold of guns. It was a speech he made over half a century ago. And it was an especially poignant call given what had happened in Dallas to his brother, and what would happen to him, infamously, at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles on 5 June 1968.

This particular clip comes halfway through the second episode of four. And still he hasnt started the race for the White House. The title of Dawn Porters series is misleading. That campaign, and its tragic end, is taken care of in episode three. Episode one is more about JFK and that tragic end, two is about Bobbys civil rights involvement, and the final episode is about justice, legacy and conspiracy. Its all about the context too, what was happening outside the Kennedy cult, in the US and in the world  Martin Luther King, Watergate, Cuba, Vietnam and the restive 60s. So it pretty much covers Bobby Kennedys entire political journey, what he stood for and why, and what he left behind.

As an account  and as a journalistic document  its impossible to fault. Meticulous, exhaustive and perceptive; Porter has sifted through yonks of archive: she takes a snip from the news here, one from a home movie there, others from rallies, speeches, holidays, and theres room for the dog. (Id like to have seen more of Freckles  who did, after all, become a politicised pooch.)

There are also talking heads  aides, advisors, representatives, the civil-rights hero John Lewis and Harry Belafonte for stardust. And its strung together into something cohesive, meaningful, and balanced  it doesnt ignore RFKs aggression, the McCarthy association or the wiretapping of Martin Luther King. This is no whitewash.

Nor is it just the gun control element that reverberates now. Danger abroad, poverty at home, civil unrest, disaffected youth, electoral interference (perhaps). Different times, same issues. And above it all hang big what-if questions: what if he hadnt been killed that night, by Sirhan Sirhan (perhaps)? What if his brother hadnt been killed? Would we be somewhere else today?

But the show really only comes alive in its final episode. Until then its accomplished but a little dry. Then, without going into detail, it becomes more than a classy cuts job. It has life breathed into it, becomes more investigative. But also more personal, more touching.