As rumors swirl that Special Counsel Robert Mueller is preparing a case against Russians who are alleged to have hacked Democrats during the 2016 election  a conclusion based solely on the analysis of cybersecurity firm Crowdstrike, a Friday op-ed in the Washington Times by retired U.S. Navy admiral James A. Lyons, Jr. asks a simple, yet monumentally significant question: Why havent Congressional Investigators or Special Counsel Robert Mueller addressed the murder of DNC staffer Seth Rich  who multiple people have claimed was Wikileaks source of emails leaked during the 2016 U.S. presidential election?

Mueller has been incredibly thorough in his ongoing investigations  however he wont even respond to Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand entrepreneur who clearly knew about the hacked emails long before they were released, claims that Seth Rich obtained them with a memory stick, and has offered to provide proof to the Special Counsel investigation.

On May 18, 2017, Dotcom proposed that if Congress includes the Seth Rich investigation in their Russia probe, he would provide written testimony with evidence that Seth Rich was WikiLeaks source.

In addition to several odd facts surrounding Richs still unsolved murder  which officials have deemed a botched robbery, forensic technical evidence has emerged which contradicts the Crowdstrike report. The Irvine, CA company partially funded by Google, was the only entity allowed to analyze the DNC servers in relation to claims of election hacking:

Notably, Crowdstrike has been considered by many to be discredited over their revision and retraction of a report over Russian hacking of Ukrainian military equipment  a report which the government of Ukraine said was fake news.

In fact, several respected journalists have cast serious doubt on CrowdStrikes report on the DNC servers:

Pay attention, because Mueller is likely to use the Crowdstrike report to support the rumored upcoming charges against Russian hackers.

Also notable is that Crowdstrike founder and anti-Putin Russian expat Dimitri Alperovitch sits on the Atlantic Council  which is funded by the US State Department, NATO, Latvia, Lithuania, and Ukranian Oligarch Victor Pinchuk. Who else is on the Atlantic Council? Evelyn Farkas  who slipped up during an MSNBC interview with Mika Brzezinski and disclosed that the Obama administration had been spying on the Trump campaign:

The facts that we know of in the murder of the DNC staffer, Seth Rich, was that he was gunned down blocks from his home on July 10, 2016. Washington Metro police detectives claim that Mr. Rich was a robbery victim, which is strange since after being shot twice in the back, he was still wearing a $2,000 gold necklace and watch. He still had his wallet, key and phone. Clearly, he was not a victim of robbery, writes Lyons.

Another unexplained fact muddying the Rich case is that of a stolen 40 caliber Glock 22 handguns stoken from an FBI agents car the same day Rich was murdered. D.C. Metro police said that the theft occurred between 5 and 7 a.m., while the FBI said two weeks later that the theft had occurred between Midnight and 2 a.m.  fueling speculation that the FBI gun was used in Richs murder.

Furthermore, two men working with the Rich family  private investigator and former D.C. Police detective Rod Wheeler and family acquaintance Ed Butowsky, have previously stated that Rich had contacts with WikiLeaks before his death.

According to Ed Butowsky, an acquaintance of the family, in his discussions with Joel and Mary Rich, they confirmed that their son transmitted the DNC emails to Wikileaks, writes Lyons.

While Wheeler initially told TV station Fox5 that proof of Richs contact with WikiLeaks lies on the murdered IT staffers laptop, he later walked the claim back  though he maintained that there was some communication between Seth Rich and WikiLeaks.

Wheeler also claimed in recently leaked audio that Seth Richs brother, Aaron  a Northrup Grumman employee, blocked him from looking at Seths computer and stonewalled his investigation.

Wheeler said that brother Aaron Rich tried to block Wheeler from looking at Seths computer, even though there could be evidence on it. He said no, he said I have his computer, meaning him, Wheeler said. I said, well can I look at it?...He said, what are you looking for? I said anything that could indicate if Seth was having problems with someone. He said no, I already checked it. Dont worry about it. Aaron also blocked Wheeler from finding out about who was at a party Seth attended the night of the murder. All I want you to do is work on the botched robbery theory and thats it, Aaron told Wheeler Big League Politics

Perhaps the most stunning audio evidence, however, comes from leaked audio of a recorded conversation between Ed Butowsky and Pulitzer Prize winning investigative journalist Seymour Hersh, who told him of a purported FBI report establishing that Seth Rich sent emails to WikiLeaks.

As transcribed and exclusively reported on by journalist Cassandra Fairbanks last year:

What the report says is that some time in late Spring... he makes contact with WikiLeaks, thats in his computer, he says. Anyway, they found what he had done is that he had submitted a series of documents  of emails, of juicy emails, from the DNC. Hersh explains that it was unclear how the negotiations went, but that WikiLeaks did obtain access to a password protected DropBox where Rich had put the files. All I know is that he offered a sample, an extensive sample, Im sure dozens of emails, and said I want money.Later, WikiLeaks did get the password, he had a DropBox, a protected DropBox, he said. They got access to the DropBox. Hersh also states that Rich had concerns about something happening to him, and had The word was passed, according to the NSA report, he also shared this DropBox with a couple of friends, so that if anything happens to me its not going to solve your problems, he added. WikiLeaks got access before he was killed.

Hersh also told Butowsky that the DNC made up the Russian hacking story as a disinformation campaign  directly pointing a finger at former CIA director (and now MSNBC/NBC contributor) John Brennan as the architect.

Hersh denied that he told Butowsky anything before the leaked audio emerged, telling NPR I hear gossip... [Butowsky] took two and two and made 45 out of it.

As we mentioned last week, Dotcoms assertion is backed up by an analysis done last year by a researcher who goes by the name Forensicator, who determined that the DNC files were copied at 22.6 MB/s  a speed virtually impossible to achieve from halfway around the world, much less over a local network  yet a speed typical of file transfers to a memory stick.

Last but not least, lets not forget that Julian Assange heavily implied Seth Rich was a source:

Given that a) the Russian hacking narrative hinges on Crowdstrikess questionable reporting, and b) a mountain of evidence pointing to Seth Rich as the source of the leaked emails  it stands to reason that Congressional investigators and Special Counsel Robert Mueller should at minimum explore these leads.

As retired U.S. Navy admiral James A. Lyons, Jr. asks: why arent they?