Rush Limbaugh warned on his radio show today that if the media continued to generate hysteria over the Trump administrations border policy, somebodys gonna get killed.

Okay. Folks, Im just gonna say it here. If the media keeps this up  if they keep up generating this hysteria  somebodys gonna get killed. I think were pretty close to somebody getting killed already, and Im not being hyperbolic, and Im not trying to call attention to myself, said Limbaugh.

Im genuinely worried about the out-of-control aspect of this. The news medias fanning the flames. The news media is leading the way on this, he added.

Limbaugh went on to explain how the left was becoming desperate because they thought Donald Trump would have been kicked out of office by now, but his popularity only seems to be growing.

The Drive-By Media is especially unhinged. This is the longest its taken to get rid of a political opponent that they can ever recall, said Limbaugh, adding that Trumps success, has created a mob of political monsters who gather on Twitter to spew insane hatred  and this is bleeding over to people even in the establishment.

Theyve already begun shooting Republicans at baseball practice, said Limbaugh in reference to last years incident where a leftist Bernie Sanders supporter shot and almost killed Congressman Steve Scalise.

Limbaugh pointed to the unhinged meltdown by leftist actor Peter Fonda, who tweeted his desire to see 12-year-old Barron Trump kidnapped and put in a cage with pedophiles, while also threatening to target and stalk the children of Border Patrol agents.

Limbaugh also cited a story about the arrest of a Florida man who threatened to kill Republican Congressman Brian Masts children over the Trump administrations child-separation immigration policy.

If you are going to separate kids at the border, Im going to kill his kids, Laurence Key told an intern. Key is a Democratic activist who volunteers with the local Planned Parenthood.

Now, why does this guy think what he thinks? Why is this guy dead wrong about what he thinks is going on? Answer: The media. How else is this guy learning, quote-unquote, whats happening, whats going on? There is no other source of information for this that generates this kind of lunatic, deranged hatred, said Limbaugh.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.