The neighbor who violently attacked Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) and broke six of the senators ribs was sentenced on Friday to 30 days in prison.

Rene Boucher, a 60-year-old retired doctor, pleaded guilty in March to one count of assaulting a member of Congress, resulting in physical injury  a federal crime.

Boucher admitted to the bizarre assault on the Republican senator in November, saying hed lost his temper over an unsightly pile of branches and brush that Paul had stacked near their shared property line in a gated community in Bowling Green, Kentucky. The brutal assault left Paul with six broken ribs and a bruised lung, and caused him to go through two bouts of pneumonia.

A judge sentenced Boucher to a year of supervised release after his 30-day prison term, and 100 hours of community service, reports WKU Public Radio. He was also fined $10,000.

Boucher apologized to the court and to Paul at his sentencing. What I did was wrong and Im sincerely sorry for what I did, Boucher said in court Friday, according to the Bowling Green Daily News. Its not something Im proud of, Im embarrassed, and I hope [Paul] and his family will one day be able to accept my apology, if possible.

Federal prosecutors had recommended Boucher serve a 21-month prison sentence for his crime. Bouchers attorneys had requested probation. They had tried to make their case earlier this week in a 10-page memo that said the assault stemmed from a dispute over lawn debris and was not a politically motivated attack.

Paul said in a statement in response to Bouchers sentencing that no one deserves to be violently assaulted.

A felony conviction is appropriate and hopefully will deter the attacker from further violence, he said. The original 21 month sentence requested would have been the appropriate punishment. I commend the FBI and Department of Justice for treating this violent, pre-meditated assault with the seriousness it deserves.

On November 3, Boucher, Pauls next door neighbor, ambushed Paul while the senator was mowing his lawn. According to federal prosecutors, Boucher said hed had enough and tackled Paul after seeing him stack brush in a pile near his property.

Boucher claims he snapped because of this simmering yard dispute. Pauls office has dismissed that description, saying it is impossible to have a dispute when no words of disagreement were ever spoken  neither immediately nor at any other time before the attack occurred.

Boucher claimed that Paul repeatedly stacked limbs, leaves, and shrubbery clippings in a pile just off their shared property line, starting in September 2017. Even though this debris was not on Dr. Bouchers property, he viewed it as unsightly  as it was placed directly in his line of sight from his patio and the back door of his house, court documents filed by Bouchers attorneys this week, said.

Boucher said he removed the pile of yard waste in October, but a few days later, Paul allegedly reconstructed the pile of debris in the same spot. Boucher hauled it to the dump, but a new mound appeared in its place.

On November 2, two days before the assault, Boucher set fire to another pile of debris, sustaining second-degree burns. The next day, Boucher claims that Paul was at it again, and he lost his temper and tackled Rand Paul as Paul was carrying branches from another location on his property and placing them on the property line.

Bouchers attorneys have said their clients anger had nothing to do with Pauls politics.

Pauls office, however, has questioned the characterization of a yard dispute. In a statement earlier this week, Pauls deputy chief of staff Sergio Gor called the attack premeditated.

Any description of this attack that implies a yard dispute justifies such violence and misses the point, he said.

Update: This post has been updated with a new comment from Sen. Paul.