A mainstream history text book, stocked in schools and libraries, has sections in its 2019 edition that declare President Trump to be an open racist, and claims that he only got elected because most of his voters are also racists.

The Advanced Placement edition of By The People: A History of the United States, published by Pearson, contains several sections which have been flagged up by conservatives as partisan, biased, and even potentially libelous.

Regarding the 2016 US elections, the textbook basically claims that all Trump voters were white, mentally unstable, old rural people of a bygone era who are afraid of development and are xenophobic (at best), racist (at worst), and sexists.

Trumps supporters saw the vote as a victory for the people who, like themselves, had been forgotten in a fast-changing Americaa mostly older, often rural or suburban, and overwhelmingly white group. Clintons supporters feared that the election had been determined by people who were afraid of a rapidly developing ethnic diversity of the country, discomfort with their candidates gender, and nostalgia for an earlier time in the nations history. They also worried about the mental instability of the president-electand the anger that he and his supporters brought to the nation.

The author of the book is James W. Fraser, Professor of History and Education at the Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development at New York University.

His bio states that the book is designed to help make US History courses more lively, with a focus on the agency of everyday Americans of many different communities, times, and places.

It continues, Frasers work also reflects his concern with complex debates about the place of religion in public schools, especially in the United States, but also internationally.

Pictures of several portions of the printed textbook were posted online by Indianapolis talk radio host Alex On-Air:

In case you didnt think there was an effort going on in public schools to indoctrinate kids with an anti-conservative agenda, a friend of mine took pictures and highlighted parts of this AP US History book, the radio host commented.

In the following section, the book describes Trumps cabinet as consisting of largely white males:

Then comes the hum-dinger section, describing Trump and his supporters as both sharing a not-very-hidden racism:

Another section, referring to Barack Obamas presidency states that Those who had long thought of the nation as a white and Christian country sometimes found it difficult to adjust.

And in a section about the Black Lives Matter movement, the book claims that Michael Brown, who was shot and killed by police in Ferguson, Missouri in 2014, was left on the street for over four hours while his parents were kept away at gunpoint, adding that The nearly all-white police force was seen as an occupying army in the mostly African American town.

Such tendentious accounts of events seems to be the result of allowing leftists, metropolitan liberal elites, and social justice warriors to literally write up their own versions of history. The fact that it is being placed in schools and libraries as impartial fact without any form of disclaimer should concern all Americans, not just conservatives or Trump supporters.