The pressure on Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is building as inauspicious details keep emerging about what hes been up to since taking office.

On Thursday, House and Senate Democrats sent two letters to the EPA and the White House detailing new alleged transgressions provided by Kevin Chmielewski, a former campaign aide for President Trump who worked as a deputy chief of staff at the EPA.

The letters cite Chmielewskis concerns that Pruitt refused to stay in secure hotels recommended by the State Department on international travel, instead opting for more opulent accommodations. Chmielewski also said that when he objected to retroactively signing off on paperwork justifying first-class travel for the administrator and one of his aides, he was sidelined and received threats from Nino Perrotta, the head of Pruitts 24-hour security detail. Its worth reading the letters in their entirety:

These allegations of luxury travel, a sweetheart housing deal with a lobbyist, retaliation against staff, and Pruitts use of a loophole to get raises for two close aides have been mounting now for weeks and they arent trivial. They could be serious violations of ethics, if not the law.

Now government watchdog investigators are now systematically building a paper trail.

The New York Times reported this week that David Apol of the Office of Government Ethics, the top ethics official in the federal government, took the unusual step of writing a letter to the EPAs head of ethics, Kevin Minoli, asking him to investigate potential ethics violations.

The Government Accountability Office and the EPAs inspector general are also poring over records at the agency. And lawmakers, including some Republicans, are demanding answers.

It gets worse every time theres a report in the news, said House Oversight Committee Chair Trey Gowdy (R-SC) at a book signing on Saturday. I dont have a lot of patience for that kind of stuff.

The investigations will likely take months to complete, but the verdicts could change Pruitts standing in the White House and his future in government.

Here is a list based on the best information we could gather of many of the investigations into his time in office:

The EPAs Office of the Inspector General audits and investigates potential wrongdoing at the agency. Though its part of the EPA, Congress appropriates its budget separately to give it independence.

The IGs office confirmed to Vox that four audits related to Pruitt are underway:

There are other audits gaining momentum as well:

The GAOs key responsibility is to keep track of how the government spends money, so it makes sense that the agency is very interested in whats going on at the EPA.

And some on Capitol Hill want more from the GAO.

The House Oversight Committee is also investigating Pruitts travels and housing arrangements. Chair Gowdy said in a letter yesterday that hes not happy with how the agency has cooperated with the inquiry.

Meanwhile, three House Republicans have called on Pruitt to resign, while two senators have publicly come to his defense. At the same time, the administrators allies in the fossil fuel sector and among conservative groups are rallying the troops to keep him in office, scrambling to justify his massive security detail and to brush off audits as a political ploy. (The White House has launched its own investigation into Pruitts condo deal as well.)

By the time these audits yield tangible results (it could be months), some of the pressure on Pruitt is likely to have dissipated. But environmentalists are energized and some Democrats smell blood in the water, so they arent likely to let this go and will continue making more inquiries.

And come November, the balance of power may shift in Congress. So the White House will have to weigh whether Pruitt can still advance the ball for the Trump agenda against the obstinate questions about his ethics.