Former FBI Director James Comey excoriates President Donald Trump in the first excerpts released from his new book, A Higher Loyalty. Comey describes Trumps presidency as a forest fire, likens the president to a mob boss, and says Trump pressured him more than once to investigate the pee tape in previews of the tell-all, which will be released April 17.

Comey does not hold back. Excerpts of the book were published Thursday by the Washington Post, which bluntly says each chapter can be interpreted as an elaborate trolling of Trump, starting with the title, A Higher Loyalty, a subtle reference to the loyalty pledge that Trump sought and did not receive from Comey.

The book is not just an indictment of Trump and his leadership; Comey also defends his decision to send, less than two weeks before the election, a letter to Congress explaining that the FBI was examining possible new Hillary Clinton emails (which Comey critics argue cost her the election). Here are the five most eye-popping details weve learned so far. And let us just say: lordy.

Comey said he first met Trump in person at an intelligence briefing before the inauguration, which is also where he first briefed Trump about the Steele dossier. The memo, compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele and published by BuzzFeed in January 2017, alleges evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.

Comey writes that Trump was focused on one particularly sordid detail from the dossier: an allegation that a blackmail tape exists of Trump asking prostitutes to pee on a bed in a room the Obamas stayed in at the Ritz-Carlton in Moscow. Per the Washington Post:

The president-elect quickly interrupted the FBI director. According to Comeys account in a new memoir, Trump strongly denied the allegations, asking  rhetorically, I assumed  whether he seemed like a guy who needed the service of prostitutes. He then began discussing cases where women had accused him of sexual assault, a subject I had not raised. He mentioned a number of women, and seemed to have memorized their allegations. The January 2017 conversation at Trump Tower in Manhattan teetered toward disaster  until I pulled the tool from my bag: We are not investigating you, sir. That seemed to quiet him, Comey writes.

Comey said Trump followed up with him after the meeting in a phone call on January 11, saying the pee tape couldnt be real because hes a germaphobe. Theres no way I would let people pee on each other around me, Comey recounts Trump saying. No way.

Trump complained the allegations were painful to his wife, Melania Trump, and that the logistics didnt make sense, according to the Post:

The president-elect argued that it could not be true because he had not stayed overnight in Moscow but had only used the hotel room to change his clothes. And after Trump explained that he would never allow people to urinate near him, Comey recalls laughing. I decided not to tell him that the activity alleged did not seem to require either an overnight stay or even being in proximity to the participants, Comey writes. In fact, though I didnt know for sure, I imagined the presidential suite of the Ritz-Carlton in Moscow was large enough for a germaphobe to be at a safe distance from the activity.

Comey said Trump brought it up again during their unusual one-on-one dinner on January 27 at which Trump tried to demand loyalty of the then-FBI director:

And again on a March 30 call:

Comey has documented in contemporaneous memos his interactions with Trump, but in his book, he goes into even more astonishing detail. He describes confronting Attorney General Jeff Sessions about leaving him alone with the president. Heres how Sessions responded, according to Comey:

Comey said he cant make a judgment on whether Trump attempted to obstruct justice  but hes not a fan of what he witnessed during his tenure. I have one perspective on the behavior I saw, which, while disturbing and violating basic norms of ethical leadership, may fall short of being illegal, Comey writes.

Thats tame compared to some of his other assessments of Trump:

The silent circle of assent. The boss in complete control, Comey writes. The loyalty oaths. The us-versus-them worldview. The lying about all things, large and small, in service to some code of loyalty that put the organization above morality and above the truth.

Comey apologizes to Hillary Clinton, nodding to her own takedown of him in her book What Happened. I have read she has felt anger toward me personally, and Im sorry for that, he writes. Im sorry that I couldnt do a better job explaining to her and her supporters why I made the decisions I made.

Comey also says President Barack Obama reassured him after the election about his decision to send the letter about Clinton, according to the Post: