Randy Bryce, the Democratic frontrunner for Wisconsins First Congressional District, got into the race in the middle of the failed Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare last summer.

Now, as Bryce likes to say, hes successfully repealed one of the men who led that effort: House Speaker Paul Ryan, who announced Wednesday that he will retire from Congress at the end of his term. But he still wants to replace Ryan.

Even though we just have the repeal part down, were still only halfway with our mission, Bryce told me on Wednesday, after the news broke.

Bryce, better known by the nickname IronStache, checks every box for Democrats trying to reclaim white working-class voters who went to Trump in 2016. He hails from Caledonia, Wisconsin, a small town in an industrial area that voted for Trump in 2016. Hes an ironworker and longtime union organizer. Hes a cancer survivor, and both of his parents are dealing with costly medical issues (his first campaign ad featured his mother, who has multiple sclerosis, talking about the exorbitant cost of her medications in the middle of the GOPs Obamacare repeal effort).

The progressive groups Our Revolution and the Working Families Party love Bryces working-class credentials and message. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee loves that hes raising money at a blistering clip  about $4.75 million since he entered the race, per his campaign.

Ryans exit also puts Bryce in an interesting position. Certainly, it boosts his chances; Ryan had held down Wisconsins First District for the past 20 years and would have been a formidable opponent. But his departure also creates a vacuum.

To this point, Bryces campaign has been part of a national movement focused on ousting Ryan and sending a message to Democrats on how to run populist candidates. Now he has to run a real campaign.

Bryce didnt seem worried when I spoke to him Wednesday.

Weve been running as, We need more working people in Washington, DC, making decisions on behalf of us, he told me on Wednesday. Thats still the same message; it hasnt been a vote for me because Im not Paul Ryan.

I talked to Bryce about his meteoric rise since he got into the race last year, and about the shift from being an ironworker on construction sites to mounting a national campaign to take down the speaker of the House  including fundraising the millions needed to mount a challenge against Ryan (and now whichever Republican replaces him in the race).

The amount of money needed to run or to take somebody out like Paul Ryan ... its obscene, Bryce said. Thats one of the things Im committed to doing is being an advocate for campaign finance reform, because its absolutely ridiculous the amount of time thats spent on trying to raise the money in order to get the message out.

Before the November midterms, Bryce has an August primary, where he will face off against Cathy Myers, a teacher and school board member from Janesville, Ryans hometown. I also interviewed Myers, which you can read here.

Last year, I was working on a high-rise building, swapping out glass 100 feet in the air, freezing my butt off, Bryce said. Today, we had something to do with Paul Ryan leaving. So weve come a long way in less than a year.

Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.

Its been a news big day for your campaign with the announcement about Ryans retirement. When did you hear the news? What were your thoughts?

I first heard this morning, I was getting ready to hop into the shower and turned the TV on just before I went into the bathroom and saw the caption, Paul Ryan has told advisers that hes not going to run again. I was obviously extremely happy, but Id heard this before; its been a rumor for several months that he wasnt going to run. I was of the mindset where Im not going to believe it until I actually see him with my own eyes say hes not running again.

With Ryan gone, this is huge for the race. How does this change your position in it?

When we first got in, we said it was in order to repeal and replace Paul Ryan with a working person. And just remembering the people that didnt know what I was about, that said, This is an uphill struggle, why are you even trying this? The kind of feeling I had today is the reason why. Even though we just have the repeal part down; were still only halfway with our mission. We still need to get to November; theres no time to ease up on the gas pedal; we have to keep it down and work just as hard as ever to make sure were successful with the replacing part.

In the same vein, your first campaign ad went viral, directly hitting Ryan on the attempt to repeal Obamacare. Youve been very vocal throughout your campaign, specifically attacking Ryan on various issues. Now hes out of the race  do you still have the same point person to hit and draw a contrast between now?

Absolutely, and the thing is, weve been running as, We need more working people in Washington, DC, making decisions on behalf of us. Thats still the same message; it hasnt been a vote for me because Im not Paul Ryan. Weve taken some pretty strong stances on some issues that we didnt have to, but it was things we felt strongly about; we felt it was fair to the voters to let them know where we stood on some issues. And even though some issues might not be considered a safe or mainstream type of thing, its the right thing to do as far as being a compassionate leader.

What do you think Ryan announcing hes going to retire says about the Republican Party in Wisconsin and Ryans own standing in Wisconsin?

I think hes one of the last people to jump off the sinking ship before it completely goes under. He waited until the last minute to try to make the Republicans feel like they had something to hold on to. So the fact that he is quitting now, it says that he sees whats coming. And I cant say that I blame him. But theyve been in power in the state of Wisconsin for years, as far as that goes. We just had some really great results last Tuesday, for our [state Supreme Court] election, and the pendulum is coming to the other side. Now we need to elect people that care about everybody, not just the wealthiest among us.

So you announced a while ago. From then until now, I wanted you to walk me how you feel things have progressed, because you have a pretty large national profile now and youve been fundraising a lot of money. The DCCC recently added you to their red to blue list. How do you feel its been going?

I was optimistic when we started. Some of the messages I got today from other ironworkers was dragon slayer, and things like that. But having a good team in place and just being committed to what we had to do, to our goals, to our ideas, to our values. Making that known throughout just the First District, but obviously the rest of the country heard about it too when the video went viral. But just being able to take steps at a time, and having the end game to what the destination was going to look like. And just being able to build  you mentioned DCCC, but we had Bernie Sanders not too long ago as well, so its uniting the Democratic Party to take out the third most powerful Republican in the country.

Last year, I was working on a high-rise building, swapping out glass 100 feet in the air, freezing my butt off. Today, we had something to do with Paul Ryan leaving. So weve come a long way in less than a year. Its not that Ive invented anything or created anything, but its just a basic story that people see with parts of their lives  things that Ive had to face.

Your campaign highlighted that youve raised nearly $5 million since you started. Why do you think this campaign is drawing so much money?

Well, the part that amazes me isnt the amount of money that weve raised, I guess the finance people are loving it. But personally, I love the fact that that many people have donated, and the fact that 74 percent of that incredible amount of money has come in $200 increments or less. Just everyday people being able to donate and reading the letters. People are like, I dont make a lot of money, but Ill donate an hours worth of pay to your campaign. Just getting that support from working people, its meant everything, it really has.

I was reading through some local news and saw that you guys had canceled a fundraiser in Madison, Wisconsin, with Chelsea Handler. What happened with that?

That was never a scheduled event that was planned.

It was never scheduled?

No, there was never an officially scheduled event for her for that to take place.

Has she been coming out to do campaign appearances?

Yeah, we did have an event in Milwaukee; somebody won a contest, so they came to the area, got to meet her and myself. And she did attend a fundraiser in Wisconsin as well. Shes been very supportive; she has been doing some traveling around, helping other candidates as well. Mostly female candidates  I think myself and Beto ORourke are two of the male candidates that shes chosen to help.

In 2016, you were a delegate for Bernie Sanders, who has a huge focus on getting money out of politics. I know a lot of your donations have been small donations, but youve raised almost $5 million. As somebody that is now running this big campaign, what do you think about the amount of money thats needed to run for Congress these days?

Its ridiculous. The amount of money needed to run or to take somebody out like Paul Ryan ... its obscene. Thats one of the things Im committed to doing is being an advocate for campaign finance reform, because its absolutely ridiculous the amount of time thats spent on trying to raise the money in order to get the message out. There are so many better ways to do it, and its something we need to do. If we are really committed to restoring democracy to the United States, we need to overturn Citizens United and have a complete finance overhaul.

How would you say you try to balance your time fundraising versus other aspects of campaigning?

Its been to the point where I demand that for a certain amount of time raising money, or if we go someplace in order to do that, that we tie in local issues, [and] labor, with the policy rollouts weve been having. And just make it accessible for everybody too.

The amount of time and money, its important to make sure its done for the right reasons. Its to represent people, so you need to be accessible. Thats what weve been able to do, and Im pretty sure that might have had something to do with Paul Ryan quitting as well. Its been over 900 days since hes had an event in the district.

When you were running against Ryan  obviously, hes a prominent national figure; youre speaking about national issues. How do you balance this national focus of the campaign and trying to fundraise the amount of money that would be needed to take down somebody like Paul Ryan with local concerns and local issues in your district?

Thats been the whole difference of this campaign so far. Its been about 900 days since Paul Ryan has had a public event in the area, but he spent Easter traveling around to Dallas raising money. And ... weve done whats needed to get done to be successful fundraising, but weve been able to pay attention to the area.

Within the last couple of weeks, weve had at least three events and invited some of the students, too, as part of the March for Our Lives event, to make sure that people who are standing up demanding to be heard, to make sure that theyre heard, to make sure we listen to them. Thats what our representative needs to do. Weve been very active within the area and making sure people know that somebody cares about them, somebody wants to represent them. You cant tell me you that you can represent somebody youre afraid to see. When your policies are so horrible that youre afraid to face the people in your district, that says everything that you need to know, which is why it was the right move for Paul Ryan to quit.

The next thing coming up is your primary in August. You have one Democratic opponent so far, Cathy Myers. How do you feel about how the primary is going to go? Do you feel confident youre going to emerge from that and make it to the fall?

Yeah, the coalition and amount of support weve been able to build is nothing short of incredible. I mean, just a united Democratic Party effort combined with labor and progressive groups that have all gotten behind us to help us repeal and replace Paul Ryan. So were going to continue our positive message. I dont have anything negative to say about any Democrat that wants to get rid of Paul Ryan. As an ironworker, Im in construction, not demolition. And were building a movement.

You had talked to my old colleague Jeff Stein last year and he asked you this question, but I wanted to ask you again. Theres been a lot of talk after the Pennsylvania special election about Conor Lamb saying he wouldnt support Nancy Pelosi as speaker if Democrats take back the House. What are your thoughts on Pelosi and if youd support her?

To be honest with you, thats not something voters have been asking me. Im really concentrated on winning this election. If she runs, its like every election: who alls in the race, who all should I consider. I weigh the options, and I vote based on who I feel would best be able to represent me or who would get the job done.

What are some of the most pressing concerns youve heard from voters on the campaign trail?

They want to save their Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare, and pensions. The older people in the district are very concerned about having a roof over their heads, having access to medication, and not being at a place where ... I mean, some of the stories Im hearing are unbelievable, where somebody goes to the pharmacist and theyre having a conversation with the pharmacist: I cant afford all my medications, which ones would you suggest I get, what do I absolutely need? Thats crazy.

My mom has MS; shes on 20 different medications. My dad has Alzheimers. Im a cancer survivor. Hopefully my son doesnt get sick. But medical issues are huge. Just being able to get by, even retired people too, where theyve given the best use of their lives and deserve to be able to sit back and rest and enjoy what they worked so hard for. People are concerned about that, about having their pensions caught or about having their access to medical care.

Or whether theyre working now, theyre concerned with being able to pass along what they have to their kids. Before, it used to be you had something a little bit better to pass on to your kids, and that was the cycle. Thats not the case so much these days. Were lucky if we can pass along what were at. Thats not the American dream, and its time to make some changes and base our legislation on things that are going to lift up working people.

Do you think you can successfully make a play for Trump voters in your district?

Without a doubt. Theres no doubt in my mind. The fact is that he came here and was talking about draining the swamp. People loved hearing that message. But now looking back, its what did he replace it with? What he filled it back up with is a lot more toxic than swamp water, and now we need people that are going to stand up to him and demand accountability. Things that are going to help us and not all these ridiculous things that have been based on whims or what he decides to put out on Twitter.