President Donald Trump has tapped CIA Director Mike Pompeo, the former three-term Republican Congress member known for his hawkish stance on Iran and his aggressive grilling of Hillary Clinton over Benghazi, as the new secretary of state.

In his 14 months as CIA director, Pompeo  who will replace beleaguered Secretary of State Rex Tillerson  quickly developed a close relationship with the president. He gave Trump daily intelligence briefings as well as his thoughts on whatever political or national security issue might be prominent that week.

Trump spoke highly of Pompeo on Tuesday. Ive worked with Mike Pompeo now for quite some time, the president told reporters outside the White House. Were always on the same wavelength. The relationship has been very good. Thats what I need as secretary of state.

But Pompeo has faced criticism for letting his loyalty to the White House undermine his duties as head of the CIA. That means hell take the State Department job while the intelligence community remains under unprecedented assault. That escalated on Monday when House Intelligence Committee Republicans formally disagreed with the intelligence communitys January 2017 assessment that Russia favored Trump during the 2016 presidential election and took steps to help him win.

Theres reason to worry about Pompeos credibility and honesty. He repeatedly misrepresented the Russia assessment, stating that the intelligence community concluded Moscow had no effect on the votes final result when in reality it made no judgments on that.

If confirmed, Pompeo will bring his more hawkish worldview to the State Department. Hes supported keeping the US prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, open, defended the CIAs use of torture in the past, and sees Iran and radical Islamic terrorism as top national security threats  all positions closely aligned with those of Trump.

That suggests Pompeo will hew closer to Trumps worldview than Tillerson has, which has far-reaching implications for US foreign policy.

Beyond his Russia falsehoods, Pompeo is known for a hardline view of Iran  including rolling back the Iran nuclear deal  and his support for Guantanamo Bay and the brutal interrogation of terror suspects.

He has defended the CIAs use of torture during the George W. Bush administration, declaring in November 2016, These men and women are not torturers, they are patriots, and, the programs being used were within the law, within the Constitution.

Trumps designated pick as the new CIA director, Gina Haspel, has her own history with torture, including torturing two suspects and destroying videos of their secret interrogation in Thailand.

Hes also advocated for keeping the US prison at Guantanamo Bay open, describing the prison as critical to national security and saying that closing it would create the potential for endless litigation and rights expanded well beyond those afforded to enemy combatants.

Pompeo, like Trump, sees the threat from terrorist groups such as ISIS and al-Qaeda as a top national security threat, and criticized the Obama administration for its refusal to call it radical Islamic terrorism  a common GOP talking point that aims to frame the terrorist problem as a religious one.

Pompeo also wants to end the Iran nuclear deal, a 2015 agreement between the US, Iran, and European and Asian powers that lifted a series of punishing economic sanctions in exchange for Tehran accepting strict curbs on its nuclear-related activities. I look forward to rolling back this disastrous deal with the worlds largest state sponsor of terrorism, he tweeted in November 2016 when he was being considered for the CIA job.

And Pompeo consistently defends the presidents forceful stance against North Korea, saying on Sunday that the US will make no concessions to Pyongyang even as potential talks between Trump and Kim Jong Un loom.

All of this puts Pompeo in line with Trumps own thinking.

But Pompeo has also at times been hawkish on Russia, putting him much more in sync with most of the nations top military brass, who see Russia as Americas top national security threat, but potentially at odds with Trump.

Speaking at a foreign policy forum in Washington in October 2015, Pompeo said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is heck bent on changing the geopolitical future, and criticized the Obama administration for not being tougher on Russia.

Trump, on the other hand, wants to improve Americas relationship with Russia even at the expense of its aggression against allies and American democracy. The president has suggested it is better for the US to work with Russia to solve global problems like terrorism.

A secretary of state must speak for the president. If Trump and Pompeo disagree on Russia, it could set them up for a potential clash on a critical national security issue.

Yet Pompeo has shown time and time again how willing he is to defend the president.

Pompeo has tried repeatedly to protect Trump from one of the most incendiary aspects of the ongoing investigation into possible collusion with Moscow: whether Russian meddling helped Trump win the White House.

On October 19, he took the stage at a prominent Washington think tank and said that the intelligence community concluded that Russias interference in the 2016 president election didnt impact the final result.

The problem is that the January 6 intelligence assessment Pompeo referred to  which represented the collective judgment of the intelligence community actually said something very different: We did not make an assessment of the impact that Russian activities had on the outcome of the 2016 election.

Not only was Pompeos statement a lie, but it also mirrored Trumps public position. It suggests Pompeo has no issues parroting Trumps own views.

Pompeos false claim about the assessment wasnt the only time he put loyalty to Trump above his CIA responsibilities. Late last year, Trump told Pompeo to meet with a conspiracy theorist who believes Russias hack and release of Democratic National Committee emails last summer was instead an inside job  and Pompeo took the meeting.

All of this goes to show the burgeoning rapport between Pompeo and the president. In his former role, Pompeo counseled the president nearly every day. He personally delivered the Presidential Daily Brief  the highly classified intelligence report created specifically for the commander in chief.

That means Pompeo was one of the few people with whom Trump discussed important national security issues on a consistent basis. Tillerson, on the other hand, never had Trumps ear like Pompeo does.

Pompeo is also a creature of Washington. Hes served in Congress for years and has a relationship with others on the Hill and around government. Should the Senate confirm Pompeo for the State Department role, hell have an easier time operating in Washington than Tillerson, who doesnt have a political background and was perceived as an outsider, has.

All of this means that Pompeo could potentially be a far more effective secretary of state than Tillerson ever was. Thats good news on the face of it, but theres an important catch: Pompeo may just feed and amplify Trumps worst instincts rather than being a voice of reason.

Tillerson was bold enough push back on the president, especially Trumps feelings on Iran and Russia. Its unclear if Pompeo will do the same  and thats potentially very dangerous.