Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is trying to hold onto his job as new details about his ethically dubious hiring and housing arrangements continue to leak.

And as hes made the rounds at conservative media outlets to tout his accomplishments and swing back at critics, Pruitt has made some outlandish claims.

Aside from his usual misleading platitudes, for instance that the Obama-era Clean Water Rule would have regulated puddles (it explicitly does not), Pruitt is generously scattering rhetorical chaff to obscure any wrongdoing at the EPA.

But now a whistleblower has come out and refuted many of Pruitts rationales in two letters sent by House and Senate Democrats to the White House on Thursday. The whistleblower, Kevin Chmielewski, was a former campaign aide for President Trump who worked as a deputy chief of staff at the EPA under Pruitt.

Here are some of Pruitts biggest whoppers, updated with new details from the letters.

Pruitt said this on the Washington Times podcast last week while talking about how the controversies hes facing are being whipped up by the environmental left and ideologically opposed career staffers at the EPA.

This is a laughably false statement if you know the history of the EPA, which you would hope its administrator would be familiar with. It was a conservative Republican administration that led the charge to create an agency to protect the environment.

Because environmental protection cuts across so many jurisdictions, and because arresting environmental deterioration is of great importance to the quality of life in our country and the world, I believe that in this case a strong, independent agency is needed, wrote Richard Nixon in a letter to Congress seeking to establish the EPA in 1970.

The agencys first administrator William Ruckelshaus had been a Republican member of the Indiana House of Representatives and was also an assistant attorney general in the Nixon administration. During his tenure, he advocated for market-based strategies for reducing pollution in air and water. In other words, not all that liberal.

This was Pruitts defense for staying in a $50-a-night condo near Capitol Hill co-owned by Vicki Hart, the wife of a prominent lobbyist, that he gave in an interview with Fox Newss Ed Henry last week.

He signed a lease (which you dont do on Airbnb) but was only billed for the nights he was there, paying $6,100 over six months. He insists that this is an appropriate market rate, and EPAs ethics office said as much in a hastily drawn up memo. Just about anyone who has lived in DC knows it isnt.

Pruitt said his landlords used the facility at the same time I was there. Sure. To host fundraisers for Republicans.

He also said that I was living out of a suitcase when I transitioned to DC. My wife was not with me. My children were not with me. My dog was not with me. His daughter, McKenna Pruitt, did in fact stay with him at the condo while she was a White House intern (and damaged the hardwood floors with her luggage, according to Chmielewski).

Vicki Hart said his daughter staying there would violate the lease agreement.

The rental agreement was with Scott Pruitt, Vicki Hart, who co-owns the property, told ABC News. If other people were using the bedroom or the living quarters, I was never told, and I never gave him permission to do that.

And Politico reported Friday that Pruitt was so reluctant to give up the pad that the landlords became frustrated and changed the locks after he left.

Scott Pruitt is the Kato Kaelin of Capitol Hill, source familiar with the matter told Politico. He is the long-term house guest who takes advantage of his hosts and refuses to take a hint about when its time to leave.

Why was he so hesitant to pack up? It might have been because the deal was even better than Pruitt let on. According to one of the letters, Chmielewski overheard a speakerphone conversation where Vicki Harts husband complained that Pruitt never paid any rent to him.

Vickis husband, J. Steven Hart, is the chair of powerhouse lobbying firm Williams & Jensen. Its clients include oil giant ExxonMobil, Canadian pipeline firm Enbridge, and liquified natural gas exporter Cheniere Energy.

Hart himself lobbied the EPA on behalf of OGE Energy, a regulated utility with coal, natural gas, and renewable power in its portfolio.

While Pruitt was staying at the condo, the EPA approved an expansion of Enbridges Alberta Clipper pipeline carrying oil from Canadian tar sands. The New York Times reported the company was also hit with a $61 million fine from the EPA in 2010 for an oil spill in Michigan.

In 2017, ExxonMobil reached a settlement with the EPA for violations of the Clean Air Act, including a $2.5 million civil penalty.

And Cheniere Energy owns the only natural gas export terminal in the continental United States. Pruitt went to Morocco last December (more below) to pitch the country on US natural gas.

Perhaps Mr. Hart recognized that the arrangement was suspicious, which is why he crossed his name off the lease and wrote his wifes name in instead:

Pruitts two international trips in 2017 included a meeting with environment ministers at the G7 environment summit in Italy and an unannounced trip to Morocco.

The trip to Morocco, where Pruitt flew first class, cost $40,000, not including the expenses for his full-time security detail. Pruitt insisted that this trip was well within EPAs wheelhouse and centered on international environmental cooperation.

But the official EPA press release about the trip says the following in literally the first sentence (emphasis added):

Being a salesperson for natural gas is definitely not in Pruitts job description.

Chmielewski also said Pruitts travel was dictated by his desire to visit certain cities rather than official work and that Pruitt told staffers find me something to do [in those locations]. Even some of Pruitts official meetings were pretexts, such as scheduling an official meeting with an old friend.

The Atlantic revealed that Pruitt asked the White House to approve huge raises for two close aides. When the White House declined to do so, Pruitts staff invoked a rarely used provision of the Safe Drinking Water Act to secure the pay bumps. The provision allows the EPA to hire up to 30 people without approval from the president or Congress and is meant to bring experts into the agency to deal with critical water issues.

Pruitt has used this provision several times before to hire industry lobbyists at the EPA, so its not unfamiliar to him. And the law explicitly requires that administrative hires get approval from, you know, the administrator.

But Pruitt told an incredulous Ed Henry on Fox News that he didnt know about the raises until recently. You dont know? You run the agency. You dont know who did this? Henry asked.

I found out about this yesterday, and I corrected the action, Pruitt said.

After the interview, the Washington Post confirmed that Pruitt did in fact ask his staffers to find a way to secure raises for his aides. Elaina Plott at The Atlantic reported on Monday that emails show that one of the aides, Sarah Greenwalt, asked the the EPAs human resources office to ensure her $56,765 raise went through after the White House had already declined to grant it, invoking Pruitts approval.

And Chmielewski told investigators that the raises were 100 percent Pruitt himself and that he was asked to step aside from his job in order to give another one of the aides, Millan Hupp, a $28,130 pay bump.

The question now is whether any of this will register with President Donald Trump, who met with Pruitt on Monday at the White House. Republicans are increasingly divided over Pruitt, with three House members calling for him to resign and two senators publicly registering their support.

Trump will have to decide whether Pruitts high-profile work undoing regulations at the EPA outweighs the negative attention hes received. Or perhaps yet another controversy will emerge from the White House and push Pruitts troubles into the background.