Comedian Michelle Wolf kicked up controversy Saturday evening at the White House Correspondents dinner in Washington, DC. Her jokes about White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders quickly became a point of contention online, and the fallout has extended past the weekend. The White House Correspondents Association has expressed regret over the monologue, and President Donald Trump has aired his grievances about the event on Twitter, while many have rallied to Wolfs defense.

Wolf, a former Daily Show correspondent and host of an upcoming Netflix late-night show, skewered Sanders as the press secretary sat just a few seats away from her onstage. Wolf compared Sanders to Aunt Lydia  a fearsome character from the dystopian Hulu series The Handmaids Tale who reeducates women into subjugation and enforces strict punishment on them  and drew attention to the press secretarys lying, saying she was an Uncle Tom for white women.

We are graced with Sarahs presence tonight. I have to say Im a little star-struck. I love you as Aunt Lydia in The Handmaids Tale. Mike Pence, if you havent seen it, you would love it. Every time Sarah steps up to the podium, I get excited, because Im not really sure what were going to get  you know, a press briefing, a bunch of lies or divided into softball teams. Its shirts and skins, and this time dont be such a little bitch, Jim Acosta! I actually really like Sarah. I think shes very resourceful. She burns facts, and then she uses that ash to create a perfect smoky eye. Like maybe shes born with it, maybe its lies. Its probably lies. And Im never really sure what to call Sarah Huckabee Sanders, you know? Is it Sarah Sanders, is it Sarah Huckabee Sanders, is it Cousin Huckabee, is it Auntie Huckabee Sanders? Like, whats Uncle Tom but for white women who disappoint other white women? Oh, I know. Aunt Coulter.

A number of journalists online said that Wolf was out of line and defended Sanders.

That [Sanders] sat and absorbed intense criticism of her physical appearance, her job performance, and so forth, instead of walking out, on national television, was impressive, the New York Timess Maggie Haberman wrote.

Lots of critics but she has always been decent and professional to me  if not entirely forthcoming (and I dont expect any press secretary to be!), wrote Josh Dawsey of the Washington Post.

And there was plenty more criticism where that came from as well.

Others said to cut it out with the pearl-clutching.

They call you liars. They call Mexicans rapists. They call Muslims murderers. They support white supremacists. But someone calls them out on what they do, & suddenly theyre heroes for not walking out, actor and comedian Kumail Nanjiani replied to Habermans tweet.

Former Barack Obama aide and Pod Save America co-host Jon Favreau pointed out Wolf mentioned the ongoing water crisis in Flint, Michigan  and those remarks were largely ignored.

Wolf responded to Haberman. Hey mags! All these jokes were about her despicable behavior. Sounds like you have some thoughts about her looks though?

She also thanked former White House press secretary Sean Spicer for his assessment the dinner was a disgrace.

On Sunday morning, Wolf responded to those saying she was insulting Huckabee Sanderss looks.

President Donald Trump, who for the second consecutive year did not attend the dinner, assailed Wolf and the event in a series of tweets. On Sunday, he said that the dinner was a very big boring bust and that the so-called comedian really bombed. On Monday, he declared the event DEAD as we know it.

White House Correspondents Association president Margaret Talev on Sunday released a statement on Wolfs monologue. Last nights program was meant to offer a unifying message about our common commitment to a vigorous and free press while honoring civility, great reporting, and scholarship winners, not to divide people, she said. She said Wolfs speech was not in the spirit of that mission.

Wolf responded on Instagram with a picture of herself from Saturday evening captioned, Not in the spirit of the mission.

That Wolfs remarks ruffled some feathers isnt particularly surprising  the correspondents dinner entertainer nearly always manages to make someone mad. Remember 2016, when Larry Wilmore called former President Barack Obama my nigga? Or what about 2006, when Stephen Colbert delivered his entire speech in his Colbert Report character? Or 2011, when Obamas and Seth Meyerss jokes about then-reality TV star and birther Donald Trump were so cutting they allegedly spurred him to run for office?

Hasan Minhaj, a senior correspondent on the Daily Show who performed at last years Correspondents Dinner, caused a stir as well. In an interview with former US attorney Preet Bharara at a conference in Manhattan on Thursday, Minhaj talked about one joke  where he repeated over and over that he did not see Steve Bannon until he arrived at Nazi Steve Bannon  that a lot of people online ... did not like.

He said he doesnt regret it. My rule is I will make fun of your character over things you can control, so I will be cutting, not cruel, he said in a sit-down at the CAFE Change Summit, which Bharara hosted.

Minhaj tweeted his support for Wolf ahead of her set on Saturday and later in the evening retweeted her response to Spicers tweet.

It is also worth noting that the White House Correspondents Dinner usually sparks a debate about the media and its coziness with the White House. Journalists are supposed to have an adversarial relationship with those in power, but at the White House, they have to toe a fine line to maintain their access as well. Every year, people are upset about the dinner because they see it as elites hobnobbing with one another.

Wolf called out the media on Saturday as well. She pointed out that despite how outraged many in the press say they are about Trump, he also has been a boon to the business, and that the media coverage of his campaign is a big part of why he was elected.

Wolf spoke for nearly 20 minutes on Saturday evening and touched on a wide range of issues, including the Democratic Party, Kellyanne Conway, abortion, and the financial crisis. Here are a handful of her other lines:

Judging by the number of outraged tweets, its clear that Wolf struck a nerve  which is the point. After Trump got elected, women started knitting those pussy hats. When I first saw them, I was like, Thats a pussy? I guess mine just has a lot more yarn on it, Wolf said a few minutes into her set. You should have done more research before you got me to do this.