Laura Moser never planned to be a folk hero of the left.

Moser, the founder of the progressive group Daily Action and a Democratic candidate running in Texass Seventh Congressional District, doesnt see herself as particularly leftist  she insists the progressive policies shes running on have broad support from the American public, and its often noted she was a Hillary Clinton supporter in the 2016 primary.

But since the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee made the explosive move of dropping an opposition research memo on Moser before her first primary race back in March, shes become perhaps the most high-profile anti-establishment candidate running this year.

It made this a national race in a way that I would not have chosen, she told me in a recent interview. Im running a local congressional race on local issues, and I didnt mean to be this kind of folk hero of the left. Thats definitely not what they wanted to do, but that was the result, I think.

DCCC operatives were clear about why they released the memo  which took aim at Mosers years spent living in Washington, DC, and a past article she had written that included disparaging comments about not wanting to move back to the small town of Paris, Texas, where her grandparents lived. The DCCCs argument was that Mosers article would disqualify her in a general election race against Republican incumbent Rep. John Culberson. Republicans would tear her to shreds, they argued.

When theres a truly disqualified general election candidate that would eliminate our ability to flip a district blue, thats a time when it becomes necessary to get involved in these primaries, DCCC spokesperson Meredith Kelly told Vox in March. This district is too important to let it go without trying.

The move appears to have backfired  Moser had a heightened national profile and boosted fundraising ability after the memo dropped. She made it into the runoff with the support of organizations such as Our Revolution, the progressive group formed after Bernie Sanderss presidential run in 2016.

I dispute the theory that thats why I made the runoff, because I had seen the same polling information that the DCCC had seen, which put me in a good position to make the runoff without them, she said.

Now Moser is facing her final test of the Democratic primary: a May runoff against longtime Houston attorney Lizzie Pannill Fletcher. Fletcher has not yet received the DCCCs endorsement; there was an email snafu that went out last week putting her name on the organizations Red to Blue list, corrected minutes later.

The Seventh Congressional District is a key one for Democrats if they want to make good on starting to turn Texas purple in 2018, a midterm year shaping up to be a potential wave. Though the Texas Seventh has been held by the GOP since the 1960s, it was one of three districts whose residents voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 (the other two are the 23rd District and the 32nd District).

Both Moser and her opponent, Fletcher, say they dont think the DCCC memo has had much of an impact on Houston voters, who prefer to talk pressing local issues like flooding infrastructure, nine months out from Hurricane Harvey. But its become a flashpoint for a larger debate about how involved the Democratic Party should get in its own primaries, especially during a year with record numbers of candidates signing up to run.

I think voters dont like being told by Washington who to vote for, and its not as if the DCCC has this stellar record of winning races up and down the nation, Moser told me. I think they should let locals run their races.

I talked to Moser about why she decided to run, the infamous memo, and what it will take for Democrats to win in Texas. Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.

Why did you decide to run this year?

Well, I dont think I would have run in any other year. I think like many women and moms all over the country, I was deeply traumatized by the election of Donald Trump and decided that I wasnt doing enough, none of us were doing enough, to fight for this frail thing called democracy.

How do you think the DCCC memo impacted your campaign before the first election? Do you think that boosted you in any way or gave you more name recognition? Or do you think it didnt have an impact?

I mean, it certainly had impact. It definitely helped us raise money. And you know, I was against a lot of people with a lot more money, a lot of outside money. So it certainly was helpful to get us up on TV the last couple weeks. We raised, I think, $130,000 in a couple days, which for our grassroots campaign was a lot.

I dispute the theory that thats why I made the runoff, because I had seen the same polling information that the DCCC had seen, which put me in a good position to make the runoff without them.

But yeah, it made this a national race in a way that I would not have chosen. Im running a local congressional race on local issues, and I didnt mean to be this kind of folk hero of the left. Thats definitely not what they wanted to do, but that was the result, I think.

Can you think back to what your reaction was when the memo was first released?

Yeah, I was at an event with about 50 people in an apartment building. I was about to speak and someone who worked with me pulled me out of the room and said, The DCCC just did this, and I looked down and saw the top line.

And I was completely flabbergasted, because its kind of like finding out some member of your own family has betrayed you. And then I had to go give a speech, and I was totally stunned and horrified. I always say my one lesson from that is if you work for anyone whos about to give a speech, save the big surprise for after theyve spoken. Because I dont remember how I got through that speech.

Obviously, your race has been the most high-profile case of this, but there have been other Democrats in other primaries saying the DCCC is getting too involved in primaries. What do you think that says about the Democratic Party right now, and institutions like the DCCC?

I mean, I think its really sad and disappointing. I think voters dont like being told by Washington who to vote for, and its not as if the DCCC has this stellar record of winning races up and down the nation.

I think they should let locals run their races and stay out of races in Texas and California and in upstate New York. I think party insiders dont always know the local races, and its certainly true in Texas, where they have not had a presence at all since I was a kid.

Do you get a sense of how Texas voters feel about the DCCC memo?

Its certainly not, when you knock on peoples doors, what they want to talk about. They havent heard about it, for the most part, and we certainly have a lot of our own problems, local to Houston. But I think the ones who do know about it are a little stupefied, the way I was.

So what are some of the things youre hearing from voters, in terms of the issues theyre thinking about in 2018?

Certainly flooding, and the need to invest in infrastructure to safeguard our city for the storms that will come. This district has been hit really hard by flooding three years in a row; people want answers. I think if John Culberson is beaten, that will be a major reason. Even very dedicated Republican voters may stay home because hes not delivering the goods on that front, though he is producing FEMA checks right now.

Ive campaigned very actively and aggressively on gun reform from the beginning of my campaign. Even though people said, Oh, its Texas, you cant do that  since [the school shooting in Parkland, Florida], thats all people want to talk about. Thats definitely, I think, an issue thats going to sway some traditionally Republican mom voters. Like the sort of Clintonian soccer moms in the 90s, I think were going to have [anti-]gun violence voters all over suburban America, but starting right here.

Im curious if you had gotten any advice not to talk about that issue before, because it is Texas. How have you navigated the political reality of the state with your message on gun control?

I guess the thing that makes my candidacy different that might be threatening to groups like the DCCC is that I dont campaign on what the consultants or the focus groups tell me to campaign on. I feel like as a mom who has written about gun violence and school shootings, that was an important issue to talk about. Not everyone agrees on every issue, but people appreciate that Im willing to be authentic and honest about what my values are.

So would you say youre trying to campaign on progressive issues? It sounds like you havent felt the need to moderate your stances. What sort of issues balance are you trying to put out there?

So I think Texas ... are you from  youre not from Texas?

No, I am from New Hampshire. Definitely not from the South.

So Ill just say, my hero growing up was [former Texas Gov.] Ann Richards. I went to her inauguration when I was in eighth grade and sat in a tree and watched her being sworn in. Theres this great history in Texas of straight-talking, witty women who tell it like it is, and I think that is the style of candidate that does well here.

I think the issues I am campaigning on are not radical issues, and if you actually go through the numbers, most people agree in Texas, in America, about what is called progressive issues. Most people think climate change is scary [and] we should talk about it. Most people think Social Security is good [and] we should protect it. Most people think the federal government should play a role in ensuring people have access to health care and dont die of cancer in the emergency room.

It sounds like what youre saying is its sort of a test to see if you can run a campaign without moderating your stances on progressive, Democratic issues and still win in Texas.

Yes, and Im also saying that progressive issues are not far-left issues. They represent the majority of Americans beliefs and values. But we just dont run on them because were afraid to offend people. But you know, its not crazy to say that the bridge you drive home from work on shouldnt collapse or that we have to invest in our country if we want good results; we have to invest in education.

The last thing I wanted to ask is if you think the blue wave hitting Texas hype is real, and if you think that 2018 could be the year we start to see Texas go purple.

Yeah, I mean, everyone who lives in Texas has heard this for so many election cycles that its hard to be too enthusiastic. But I think that [Democratic Senate candidate Beto] ORourke is a great gift to every Democrat in Texas; hes an incredible talent, completely charismatic, campaigning on the real issues, and going up and down the state to actually try to speak to people who have been left behind. Small towns that are lost causes for Democrats  hes actually not writing anyone off.

But I think it really depends on who we nominate. Do we have candidates that are exciting to people, do we have candidates who can motivate new voters? Then yeah, I think it could happen. Non-presidential years are very challenging for Democrats in Texas, historically.