After Trump got elected, women started knitting those pussy hats. When I first saw them, I was like, Thats a pussy? I guess mine just has a lot more yarn on it, Michelle Wolf said a few minutes into her now-infamous White House correspondents dinner monologue. You should have done more research before you got me to do this.

Had they, they would have noticed her HBO special, in which she joked theres never been a female presidential assassin because women are too nice. Or her post-election summary of Donald Trumps 2016 victory on The Daily Show, when she said, I feel like I just broken with [by] someone whos uglier and has a worse personality. I mean, how did this happen? Experienced politician vs. racist fake gynecologist.

Or when on another Daily Show appearance she said of Kellyanne Conway, When shes done talking, I dont know if my mouth is my ass or my ass is my mouth. Or another, where she called Megyn Kelly in her Fox News days a pretty, race-baiting puppet who Roger Ailes kept trying to put his hand up.

Either the White House Correspondents Association didnt do their research, or they did and thought Wolf was funny, which she is. But its too late now, as she managed to kick up a load of controversy Saturday evening at the White House Correspondents Dinner in Washington, DC.

Her jokes about White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders quickly became a point of contention online, and the fallout has extended past the weekend. She also took jabs at Conway and Kelly  which, given her past comedy, is not exactly a surprise.

Wolf told NPR in an interview that will air on Tuesday that she has no regrets about her performance. I wouldnt change a single word that I said, she said. Im very happy with what I said, and Im glad I stuck to my guns.

The White House Correspondents Dinner usually sparks a debate about the media and its coziness with the White House. Journalists are supposed to have an adversarial relationship with those in power, but at the White House, they have to toe a fine line to maintain their access as well. The dinner is technically a party thrown by the press for the White House, their invited guests, and so every year, people are upset about the dinner because they see it as elites hobnobbing with one another.

Trumps choice to skip the dinner the past two years quieted that debate somewhat, but Wolfs monologue Saturday, and particularly her lines targeting Sanders, brought it back. Conservatives and some journalists who attended said Wolf went too far. The White House Correspondents Association expressed regret over the monologue. Trump has aired his grievances about the event on Twitter.

At the heart of the uproar is a bigger question: Should a comedian at the White House Correspondents Dinner play it safe for the audience in the room? Or should she take some more pointed shots at the crowd of political and journalistic elites who spend the night acting like theyre all in on the same joke?

Wolf signaled early in her monologue Saturday night that she wasnt there to pull punches: I am 32 years old, which is an odd age  10 years too young to host this event, and 20 years too old for Roy Moore, she said. I know, he almost got elected, yeah. It was fun. It was fun.

Wolf is a former Daily Show correspondent and host of an upcoming Netflix late-night show, The Break with Michelle Wolf. Shes also appeared on Late Night with Seth Meyers, where she performed her own stand-up and played recurring characters, such as a grown-up version of Little Orphan Annie. According to a recent New York Times profile of her, Wolf originally had a career in finance but quit to start improv classes in New York. She has a sharp, self-deprecating sense of humor, and Meyers to the Times described her as either the meanest nice person I know or the nicest mean person I know.

Her Saturday monologue, which lasted nearly 20 minutes, touched on issues including the Democratic Party, Kellyanne Conway, abortion, and the financial crisis:

Wolf also skewered Sarah Huckabee Sanders as the press secretary sat just a few seats away from her onstage. Wolf compared Sanders to Aunt Lydia  a fearsome character from the dystopian Hulu series The Handmaids Tale who reeducates women into subjugation and enforces strict punishment on them  and drew attention to the press secretarys lying, saying she was an Uncle Tom for white women.

We are graced with Sarahs presence tonight. I have to say Im a little star-struck. I love you as Aunt Lydia in The Handmaids Tale. Mike Pence, if you havent seen it, you would love it. Every time Sarah steps up to the podium, I get excited, because Im not really sure what were going to get  you know, a press briefing, a bunch of lies or divided into softball teams. Its shirts and skins, and this time dont be such a little bitch, Jim Acosta! I actually really like Sarah. I think shes very resourceful. She burns facts, and then she uses that ash to create a perfect smoky eye. Like maybe shes born with it, maybe its lies. Its probably lies. And Im never really sure what to call Sarah Huckabee Sanders, you know? Is it Sarah Sanders, is it Sarah Huckabee Sanders, is it Cousin Huckabee, is it Auntie Huckabee Sanders? Like, whats Uncle Tom but for white women who disappoint other white women? Oh, I know. Aunt Coulter.

Some immediately argued that Wolf went too far. That [Sanders] sat and absorbed intense criticism of her physical appearance, her job performance, and so forth, instead of walking out, on national television, was impressive, the New York Timess Maggie Haberman wrote.

Lots of critics but she has always been decent and professional to me  if not entirely forthcoming (and I dont expect any press secretary to be!), wrote Josh Dawsey of the Washington Post.

President Donald Trump, who for the second consecutive year did not attend the dinner, assailed Wolf and the event in a series of tweets. On Sunday, he said that the dinner was a very big boring bust and that the so-called comedian really bombed. On Monday, he declared the event DEAD as we know it.

And some journalists complained that the monologue would reinforce stereotypes about the media:

Wolf fired back at all of this, including a response to Haberman:

She also thanked former White House press secretary Sean Spicer for his assessment the dinner was a disgrace.

On Sunday morning, Wolf responded to those saying she was insulting Huckabee Sanderss looks.

White House Correspondents Association president Margaret Talev on Sunday released a statement on Wolfs monologue. Last nights program was meant to offer a unifying message about our common commitment to a vigorous and free press while honoring civility, great reporting, and scholarship winners, not to divide people, she said. She said Wolfs speech was not in the spirit of that mission.

Wolf responded on Instagram with a picture of herself from Saturday evening captioned, Not in the spirit of the mission.

The correspondents dinner entertainer nearly always manages to make someone mad. Remember 2016, when Larry Wilmore called former President Barack Obama my nigga? Or 2011, when Obamas and Seth Meyerss jokes about then-reality TV star and birther Donald Trump were so cutting they allegedly spurred him to run for office?

Hasan Minhaj, a senior correspondent on the Daily Show who performed at last years Correspondents Dinner, caused a stir as well. In an interview with former US attorney Preet Bharara at a conference in Manhattan on Thursday, Minhaj talked about one joke  where he repeated over and over that he did not see Steve Bannon until he arrived at Nazi Steve Bannon  that a lot of people online ... did not like.

He said he doesnt regret it. My rule is I will make fun of your character over things you can control, so I will be cutting, not cruel, he said in a sit-down at the CAFE Change Summit, which Bharara hosted.

In 2006, Stephen Colbert showed at the White House Correspondents Dinner in character and roasted the Bush administration. In the ballroom, the monologue generated a lot of awkward silences and nervous laughter. But online, it went viral. YouTube, still new at the time, meant that everyone could watch Colberts routine, and some of the jokes that landed with a thud in the room were the ones that people outside it saw as speaking truth to power.

A similar debate is now playing out around with Wolfs speech.

They call you liars. They call Mexicans rapists. They call Muslims murderers. They support white supremacists. But someone calls them out on what they do, & suddenly theyre heroes for not walking out, actor and comedian Kumail Nanjiani replied to Habermans tweet.

Former Barack Obama aide and Pod Save America co-host Jon Favreau pointed out Wolf mentioned the ongoing water crisis in Flint, Michigan  and those remarks were largely ignored.

I wasnt expecting this level [of controversy], but Im also not disappointed theres this level, Wolf told NPR. I knew what I was doing going in.

The whole affair has turned into another Trump-driven outrage cycle, focusing plenty of energy and attention on something relatively trivial. Its a dynamic Wolf alluded to in one of her most cutting lines, aimed not at the administration but at the journalists in the room:

You pretend like you hate him, but I think you love him, she said. I think what no one in this room wants to admit is that Trump has helped all of you. He couldnt sell steaks or vodka or water or college or ties or Eric. But he has helped you. ... You helped create this monster, and now youre profiting off of him.