Obamacare repeal may be closer than you think.

That was the headline from the Washington Examiners Quin Hillyer late last week. It was enough to send a shiver down my spine.

In the column (self-identified as opinion), Hillyer lays out that former Sen. Rick Santorum, Vice President Mike Pence and the minds behind the Graham-Cassidy Obamacare repeal plan havent given up their work. It could still be revived, he argued, especially now that the bipartisan health care talks have fallen apart. What do Republicans have to lose in pursuing their signature campaign promise, given that Democrats are already very energized for the 2018 midterms while GOP voters seem demoralized?

So how seriously should we take this? Are these just the extended death rattles of the GOPs Obamacare failure? Or could the last act of the 115th Congress be another run at repeal?

To be clear, I dont have any reason to doubt Hillyers reporting that Obamacare repeal planning is still underway and top Republicans, up to and including the vice president, are taking an interest. But I made the rounds today with the K Street insiders who guided us through the health care fight last year, and I found a lot of skepticism.

I believe the part where they are working on something, one GOP health care lobbyist told me. I dont believe there is any way it gets further than any of the previous attempts in this Congress. Whats the path to victory?

Another Republican lobbyist laid out the problems in more detail:

Let me add a few more.

I think I have a better chance of being called up to replace LeBron in the playoffs than the Senate repealing Obamacare, said a lobbyist for health insurers who clearly knows their audience.

Nothing has changed other than McCain might not make it back to vote, which makes it even harder to pass, the lobbyist said. Why get egg on your face again when you can have a lasting impact by filling administration positions?

I have a Miracle Max theory for Obamacare repeal: It is mostly dead, for all the reasons we just laid out. But mostly dead is slightly alive, as the miracle worker said.

As long as Republicans control every lever of power in Washington, Obamacare can never be completely safe. A Democratic House or Senate is the only true safeguard against repeal. Well know more about the long-term health of the law after the 2018 midterms.

But those political realities that stymied Republicans in 2017 are still the same  and if anything, the terrain looks even more difficult now.

This story appears in VoxCare, a newsletter from Vox on the latest twists and turns in Americas health care debate. Sign up to get VoxCare in your inbox along with more health care stats and news.

Are you interested in more discussions around health care policy? Join our Facebook community for conversation and updates.