When victims of sexual harassment in the workplace gather the courage to come forward, many learn troubling news: They are legally forbidden to sue their employer.

Mandatory arbitration clauses mean that many  if not most  cases of sexual harassment are dealt with behind closed doors. Instead of making their way to court, they are settled by arbitrators, independent professionals who are selected to resolve disputes. Its estimated that more than 60 million Americans have signed such arbitration clauses.

In July 2016, Gretchen Carlson sued Fox News chair and CEO Roger Ailes for sexual harassment, a move that eventually won her $20 million and encouraged dozens of other Fox employees to come forward. In the end, Ailes was forced to step down. Now Carlson is focusing her efforts on ending forced arbitration, which she signed in her own contract with Fox News, and helping women speak publicly about harassment. Shes not allowed to explain how her lawyers managed to get around the clause, and says that kind of secrecy is part of the problem.

In the forthcoming documentary series America Divided, airing May 4 on Epix, Carlson makes clear that her goal is getting a federal law passed that would eliminate mandatory arbitration in harassment for gender discrimination cases. One has been introduced by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, including Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York.

Carlson is not alone: Susan Fowler, the former Uber engineer who came out publicly against her employer alleging sexual harassment, is also working with members of the California State Assembly to pass legislation to eliminate forced arbitration, which prevented Fowler from coming forward about sexual harassment at Uber until after she quit.

Very early on, I realized that it was a pervasive epidemic, Carlson says of mandatory arbitration.

When I filed my suit, I had no idea how pervasive it was across every socioeconomic line and every profession, from Smalltown, USA, all the way to Washington, DC.

I spoke to Carlson about what happens when employees are forced to settle disputes outside of courts and how companies benefit, among other subjects. Our conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.

Can you briefly explain what arbitration clauses are? Why can they be harmful to victims of harassment?

Most people have no idea that they have them in their employment contracts. Theyve doubled since the year 2000; 60 million Americans have them now.

What it does is it actually take away your Seventh Amendment constitutional right to an open jury process if you find yourself in any kind of a dispute with your employer. Most people start jobs never expecting to get into any kind of a dispute. I know I didnt. But then when you find out you have one of these, it means that settling that case is going to be secret.

Can you walk me through how an arbitration clause might shape how a company handles a sexual harassment claim, and how it affects the outcome?

Lets say youre being harassed. You go to complain to HR. The company wipes their forehead with their hand and goes, Phew, nobody will ever know about this, because of these clauses. Then you get thrown into forced arbitration where, oftentimes, the company picks your arbitrator for you. You dont get the same number of witnesses and depositions [as you would in court]. Rarely does the employee win  only 20 percent of the time. And there are no appeals.

Then you could get fired because once you bring a harassment or discrimination claim, companies rarely keep you on. So now youre out of a job and cant ever tell anyone why you had to leave. Also, with arbitration, because its secret, the perpetrator oftentimes gets to stay on the job  again, because no one knows the person has been accused  to harass again.

Whats the benefit for a victim of harassment in going to court  financial? Psychological?

Well, first and foremost, it gives you the opportunity, if you choose, to make your case known. It doesnt mean that youre going to go through the whole court process, because that can take years. But its the idea that youre not automatically shoved into secrecy. It doesnt just help the victim  it might stop the harassment. Because once the perpetrators know that it wont be shoved into secrecy, they might not harass anymore. It changes the whole dynamic within the workplace.

And it gives voice to more than just one person. The arbitration process means that nobody else in the company knows this behavior might be going on. When things are technically more out in the open, more people dont feel alone. So you find strength in numbers.

The whole point of this movement is to try and make this more of a public discussion within the workplace. We should be finding out ways to talk about this more openly. The more that a person has the ability to make something transparent, I think, the greater the possibility that people stop doing it.

How can an employee find out if they signed an arbitration clause?

Contracts can generally be heavy and hard to get through. Often the contract will include, usually at the end, how disputes are resolved. If you have an arbitration clause, itll say all disputes will be governed by a list of different groups of arbitrators, as opposed to the courts of, say, New York or whatever state youre in.

But sometimes its in the really fine print, so people have no clue that they even have these things. And when theyre reading through a long contract, unless theyre getting legal help with it, they dont know what theyre signing. Even if you identify it and bring up to your prospective employer that you dont want it to be in there, theyll just move on to the next person.

You had signed a forced arbitration clause, yet you were still able to win a $20 million lawsuit when you came forward about Roger Ailes harassing you. How did you get around it?

I cant get into the specifics of what I had or didnt have. All I can say is that my attorneys came up with a very creative strategy to allow my case to become public, which was incredibly important. Because otherwise you wouldnt know why times up  wed have known nothing. It was because of that that were positioned where we are now.

Did signing the forced arbitration clause affect your decision or discourage you in any way from coming forward?

Again, I cant answer specifics, which is part of the problem about how we resolve issues. We resolve them by muzzling people. But I will say that generally, its a dark day for any employee to find out they have an arbitration clause. Especially if they have a dispute, because theyre realizing that they no longer have that right to an open jury process.

What reasons do companies give for using forced arbitration clauses? That not having them would trigger a flood of lawsuits? That its cheaper than courtroom fights?

Both. Because of the way the system currently operates, where the employee rarely wins, Im sure that its a benefit financially [to the companies]. And yes, I guess there is a perception that these lawsuits would be more public. I think its beneficial for corporations to have the outside world not know about their problems.

Is there any downside to getting rid of forced arbitration? Do companies make any valid points in defending these clauses?

Not in harassment cases, because [arbitration] was never intended for harassment or discrimination cases in the workplace. The Supreme Court initially ruled on this 20 years ago  it was specifically [meant] to unclog the court system that had become way too overloaded with small-business disputes. But [it wasnt meant] for human rights violations. Thats actually how my case was made public  it was a human rights law that happened to be on the books in New York. So arbitration is never intended for allegations about human decency; its just been filtered into being used in that way.

For example, the bill introduced in December in the House and Senate is very narrow in the sense that it only gives [employees] a choice for harassment or gender discrimination cases to not go to arbitration. It doesnt say for every dispute. We did that on purpose because we wanted to make it bipartisan, and we knew that we would never get both parties to agree, at least right now, to eradicate all arbitration. I want to make sure that it actually had a chance of passing.

So, talking specifically about Congress, women make up only 20 percent of the legislative body. How can we pass bills that really support women when many members of Congress cant relate to these situations?

I started the All in Together leadership initiative as a way to encourage more women not only to run for office but to call their members of Congress and let their voices be heard on issues that are important to them. The research also shows that women dont do that  not only are we not equally represented in Congress, but we dont take actions to make sure that our voices are heard.

My hope is that during this whole #MeToo movement were experiencing that women are feeling empowered on everything. Not just this issue, but to also know that their voice does matter.

Secondarily, weve seen a huge rush of women deciding to run for office in 2018. In my own town [of Greenwich, Connecticut], we had a local election in November for city council, and many women who had never run before decided to run. And they all won. So I think that alone is sort of the microcosm of what were seeing happening.

And heres the other thing: Women are socialized into thinking that well never win, so we dont run. We need to empower women to look at it completely differently.

So few women are able to actually win these suits  how can they face the challenge to go up against a corporation, say, a big tech company that has deep pockets and can pay for lawyers?

Its why a lot of times it doesnt happen, for financial reasons. There are attorneys that will take cases on contingency, which is usually the only way that anyone can afford to do it. You pay a small fee upfront, and then if you win, a percentage of your settlement goes to the lawyers  usually a pretty big chunk of it. But thats the only way that people can afford to do this.

This is why youre seeing the movement and the outcry that weve been seeing  because there is this injustice. Its why companies have arbitration clauses, so that nobody ever finds out their dirty laundry.

Id just like to call out the fact that Microsoft, on their own, has decided to take arbitration clauses out of their contracts. And they did that after we introduced our bill in December. Im hoping more companies will follow suit. But so far, not a lot have jumped in for it.

Hope Reese is a journalist in Louisville, Kentucky. Her writing has appeared in the Atlantic, the Boston Globe, the Chicago Tribune, Playboy, Vox, and other publications. Find her on Twitter @hope_reese.