Fifteen-year-old Alina Zagitova won the first gold for the Olympic athletes from Russia at the 2018 Winter Olympics in the women's single figure skating.

She followed her short programme world record 82.92 with 156.65 points in the free dance to finish 1.31 points ahead of compatriot Evgenia Medvedeva.

Skating last, Medvedeva, 18, looked to have done enough to overhaul Zagitova but the judges scored their free dance routines equally in Pyeongchang.

OAR have now won 14 medals at these Games, while Zagitova is the second youngest women's figure skating champion in history after American Tara Lipinski in 1998.

"I need some time to understand that I won the Olympic Games," said Zagitova.

"I knew I didn't have any room for errors. My hands were shaking, but my body remembered what I've been doing many times in practice."

Two-time world champion Medvedeva was favourite for the event until recent months before a foot injury and the emergence of her younger training partner Zagitova.

Medvedeva scored a world record 81.61 in the short programme on Wednesday, only to see it bettered moments later by Zagitova.

With a slight advantage going into the free dance, Zagitova produced a strong routine but made a slight error on the landing of her triple lutz.

Medvedeva followed shortly after with an excellent performance of her own, and there were boos from some spectators when the judges' decision was announced.

Zagitova and Medvedeva are two of 169 Russia athletes who are allowed to compete as neutrals under the OAR team banner at the Games despite Russia being banned for anti-doping violations.

OAR have won one gold medal, five silver and eight bronze.

Zagitova was on it but didn't give me any heart. Medvedeva gave us everything. Yes, her jumps were tiny but they were pristine. Her performance was glorious.

She was shocked and I think most of us are.

Pakistan's alpine skier Muhammad Karim says he was "embarrassed" after being disqualified for missing a gate early in his first slalom run.

"It's so embarrassing for me," said Karim, who finished 72nd in the giant slalom last week. "I'm so sad about that. Such bad luck.

"When you hold your country's flag at the Winter Olympics it's so good for us. It's a big thing for us.

"Hopefully we will do more good training for the next Olympics and we improve our position."