Sens. Cory Booker, D-New Jersey, and Jeff Flake, R-Arizona, ventured outside Thursday morning for a "snowball duel."

The stakes: Loser would have to buy pizza for the winner's staff.

Booker announced he lost the duel to Flake.

"With great ignominy I have to announce I lost the snowball fight 3 to 2," he wrote. "I'm buying the pizza for his office . . . . I neglected to tell him though that I am definitely sending a vegan pizza or two."

I should have known this was a setup... lost this morning's snowball duel to a guy named Flake from Snowflake, Arizona! pic.twitter.com/A0TVajte4R  Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) March 22, 2018 Another tweet from Booker showed the two men backs turned, walking away from each other in true duel fashion as described in the hit broadway musical "Hamilton." With great ignominy I have to announce I lost the snowball fight 3 to 2. 



I'm buying the pizza for his office . . . . I neglected to tell him though that I am definitely sending a vegan pizza or two. pic.twitter.com/iW3I19kmdt  Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) March 22, 2018 "I should have known this was a setup... lost this morning's snowball duel to a guy named Flake from Snowflake, Arizona!" Booker added. Earlier, the two tweeted about the upcoming face-off, with Booker comparing it to Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton. "Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton had theirs. @JeffFlake (Senator Jeff Flake) and I are having our version: A snowball duel. Capitol East Lawn," Booker tweeted. Booker also noted that his rival represents Arizona, a state generally lacking in snow. Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton had theirs. @JeffFlake (Senator Jeff Flake) and I are having our version:



A snowball duel. Capitol East Lawn. 



Who gets hit most,



buys other's staff Pizza. 



You Snow Who Is Going To Win!



Arizona doesn't have much snow!  Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) March 22, 2018 "You Snow Who Is Going To Win! Arizona doesn't have much snow!" he added. "It wasn't exactly Hamilton-Burr, or even Trump-Biden, but it was a monumental battle. @CoryBooker's drop & roll maneuver was legit," he said. It wasn't exactly Hamilton-Burr, or even Trump-Biden, but it was a monumental battle. @CoryBooker's drop & roll maneuver was legit. pic.twitter.com/kKWwYf239B  Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) March 22, 2018 A nor'easter brought several inches of snow to Washington on Wednesday, but lawmakers have remained on the Hill working toward a spending deal.