Rev. Kenneth Sharpton Glasgow, the alleged half-brother of Rev. Al Sharpton, led a march against gun violence Saturday in Dothan, Alabama.

Glasgow walked Dothans downtown streets Saturday shouting through a megaphone about bringing change to Americas gun laws, WDHN

 reports.

The next night, Dothan police believe the ex-convict helped another man commit a drive-by shooting at the intersection of Lake Street and Allen Road. Glasgow, 52, was charged with capital murder alongside 26-year-old Jamie Townes, the alleged gunman, according to the Dothan Eagle.

Dothan Police Chief Steve Parrish told the news site Glasgow was the driver of the vehicle used in the murder of Breunia Jennings, 23.

According to the Eagle:

In a press conference Monday afternoon, Parrish said it appears Jennings stole Townes vehicle. Townes got into Glasgows vehicle, and the two followed Jennings while she drove.

Townes fired several shots into the vehicle Jennings drove, he said, striking her in the head. She later died from her injuries.

Alabama law states a person is legally accountable for the behavior of another constituting a criminal act if, with the intent to promote or assist the commission of the offense ... he aids or abets such another person in committing the offense ...

WDHN reports Glasgow was chatting with bystanders at the crime scene Sunday and claimed a 2018 Toyota Camry involved in the ordeal was his vehicle.

We were ducked down in the car while it was happening, he allegedly said.

The murder victim, 23-year-old Breunia Jennings, was in a wrecked Chevrolet Monte Carlo SS that had significant damage, according to WDHN. The vehicles back window was shot out leaving glass all over the intersection. Just feet away was Glasgows Camry.

Sharpton and Glasgow have been activists on projects together. Glasgow is an ex-convict who started an Alabama ministry called The Ordinary People Society. He has recently been campaigning to restore voting rights for convicts.

In 2013, Glasgow teamed with Sharpton to protest the murder of Trayvon Martin in Florida.

And while Glasgow has capitalized on his half-brothers celebrity and connections  his website features a selfie with failed 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton  his relation to Reverend Sharpton is sort of complicated.

He told WKRG in 2016 that he was conceived when his mother had an affair with her mothers second husband  Al Sharpton Jr.s father.

So youre saying that Al Sharpton Sr. slept with his wifes daughter? a WKRG reporter questioned.

According to what I was told, Glasgow said.