The Trump White House has devolved to a new low of chaotic infighting.

The presidents son-in-law just lost his top-secret clearance and, under increasing ethical scrutiny, is said to be paranoid about whos leaking against him. One of the presidents closest aides, Hope Hicks, is leaving and may be facing her own legal woes. His family is clashing with his chief of staff. Rumors are swirling that his national security adviser might soon be pushed out too, and that his top economic adviser could quit. On top of all that, hes angrily lashing out at his attorney general on Twitter and trying to interfere with an investigation  again.

Many of these are long-simmering grudges and problems in the administration. But theyve been further destabilized by new developments like the scandal over White House staff secretary Rob Porter and a round of reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is looking into what seems to be everything under the sun. And were already seeing policy consequences, with Trump circumventing what had been the policy process to declare hed impose new tariffs.

After President Trump fired Reince Priebus and replaced him with John Kelly last July, the retired general tried to bring some more rigor to what had been a messy and disorganized White House process. Kelly saw no use for those he saw as bombastic, machiavellian troublemakers  like Anthony Scaramucci and Steve Bannon, both of whom he pushed out within weeks. Other outside advisers in Trumpworld, too, saw their access cut off.

But when it came to Jared Kushner, the presidential son-in-law who had a seemingly limitless portfolio, Kelly took a different tack. He scaled back Kushners portfolio but didnt oust him or first daughter Ivanka Trump, allowing them to continue to hold prominent White House posts. As for Hope Hicks  a favorite of the president and ally of Jared and Ivanka, though viewed by some as underqualified  Kelly ended up agreeing to promote her to communications director on a permanent basis.

At the same time, Kelly enlisted White House staff secretary Rob Porter as a key ally in his quest to get more control over the paper flow to Trump, the workings of the policy process, and who got to go into the Oval Office. Porter, it so happened, was dating Hicks.

So an equilibrium emerged. The old retired general, Kelly, would tolerate the two romantically entwined pairs of younger high-level White House aides (Porter and Hicks, Jared and Ivanka), rather than gunning for them  and vice versa.

But when Porters history of alleged spousal abuse came to light, leading to his ouster from the White House, the dominoes began to fall:

All of this has led to some alarm in Trumpworld, with Scaramucci perhaps speaking for the Jared/Ivanka/Hicks camp when he sounded off Thursday about Kelly (who, we should remember, fired him). Does the president want to lose everyone because of General Jackass? Scaramucci asked Jennifer Jacobs of Bloomberg News. The guy is a bad dude. Fear and intimidation doesnt work in a civilian organization.

Meanwhile, Porters exit also seems to have caused, or at least contributed to, tumult on an entirely separate topic: trade policy.

All along, there has been a camp of advisers in the administration who have been pushing for tariffs and other tougher trade policies  including White House aide Peter Navarro and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. But up to this point, theyve generally been marginalized by a more establishment-friendly group, including National Economic Council chair Gary Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin  and, it seems, Rob Porter.

But Politicos Ben White and Andrew Restuccia report that in the days since Porters ouster, the trade hawks have gained ascendancy:

Meanwhile, the Timess Ana Swanson recently reported that not only Navarro is a player again, but Trump has promised him a new promotion. Amid the tumult, Mr. Navarro has been able to leverage a close personal relationship with the president to gain more access, Swanson wrote, citing a source close to the White House.

This led to a chaotic day of conflicting reports leading up to Trumps surprise announcement yesterday, with no details, that hes going to put a tariff of 25 percent on steel imports and 10 percent on aluminum imports. Cohn is now rumored to be considering quitting the White House in response.

Yet its too simple to claim that without the Porter scandal, the Trump administration would be in great shape on a personnel front. Two other matters have been problems for months, and returned to the headlines this week.

One is the position of National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster. Its been widely reported that Trump doesnt get along with McMaster, who has been rumored to be headed for the exits for a while. But on Thursday, some sources sent up a trial balloon for ousting him to MSNBC. The new development was that Kelly and Secretary of Defense James Mattis were said to be on board with the plan too.

Still, its worth remembering that there was a report like this about Secretary of State Rex Tillersons supposedly imminent ouster last November  and hes still around three months later. (An NSC spokesperson called the report on McMaster fake news.)

Last but most certainly not least, theres the never-ending drama surrounding Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions  a drama that could have major consequences for the Russia probe.

Both in private and in public (and on Twitter), Trump has mocked and harshly criticized Sessions since he recused himself from oversight of the Russia probe, in an apparent effort to pressure him into resigning. (Sessions hasnt taken the bait.) The presidents attention to the issue has waxed and waned, but on Wednesday, he sent another furious tweet Sessionss way, which set off a new round of chatter that Trump could fire Sessions.

Trumps specific criticism of Sessions here makes no sense, but the bigger picture is that, as hes said repeatedly, he wants the Justice Department to do more to investigate his political enemies and is annoyed that Sessions wont take a greater personal role in doing so.

If Trump does pull the trigger and fire Sessions, hed set off yet another crisis to embroil his administration and throw the future of the Mueller investigation into question. (Sessions is recused from oversight over the probe, but a new attorney general wouldnt necessarily be  and could rein it in.)

Will he do it? Who knows. But Axioss Jonathan Swan and Mike Allen had a pithy sentence to describe where things are now: Trump is in a bad, mad place.