Manchester City drew the first leg of their Women's Champions League semi-final with defending champions Lyon.

Crucially, City did not concede an away goal and will be positive about their chances of progression after the second leg, which takes place on 29 April.

Home goalkeeper Karen Bardsley made a stunning late save to keep out Amandine Henry's header and earn a draw.

Melissa Lawley had City's best effort of the first leg, but goalkeeper Sarah Bouhaddi pushed her shot over the bar.

Nikita Parris volleyed over from a corner in the closing stages but clear chances for the hosts were scarce.

Before her flying save from Henry, England international Bardsley had rarely been tested either, despite four-times European champions Lyon enjoying greater possession and territory.

Lyon had won all 28 of their competitive matches this season, scoring 173 goals and conceding just five, prior to their goalless draw in Manchester.

City, who lost to Lyon in the last four of last season's competition, came more into the match after the runaway French league leaders had dominated the opening 15 minutes.

Lawley's pace on the counter attack presented the biggest threat for the visitors, who also went close either side of half-time through Eugenie Le Sommer and substitute Camille Abily.

Lyon's England defender Lucy Bronze was booked on her return to her former club for a late challenge on Parris, and tested Bardsley with a long-range shot late on.

This is the first season in which two English clubs have reached the semi-finals of the Women's Champions League, with City and Chelsea bidding to become the first English side to reach the final of Europe's premier competition since Arsenal did so in 2007.

WSL 1 leaders Chelsea lost 3-1 at home to German club Wolfsburg in the first leg of their semi-final on Sunday.

"We know that they're a good side and we knew we had to make it hard for them, and I think we did that.

"We'll work on our possession this week - it's important that when we regain the ball, we try to cause them a few more problems."

"I'm proud because of the effort and endeavour in the moments when we were under pressure, and also because what a difference a year makes - last year we gave away a penalty after 30 seconds and gave away three away goals.

"When you play against a team that's the best in the world and has won so much, you have to expect to be under pressure at times.

"But I thought we put them under pressure at times. I said to the players afterwards that I was disappointed we didn't score because we had some opportunities."

"I think we were very poor, especially in the first half. We changed it in the second half but by then I think we had some tired legs from chasing more than we needed to in the first half.

"City played their game plan well and probably planned better than we did.

"The expectation at this club is to always play well and I don't think that we played to our standards in the first half."