Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) voted to confirm Mike Pompeo as CIA director, but he will oppose him as Secretary of State, citing the directors anti-diplomacy disposition. Kaine sits on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee  the one that held a confirmation hearing for Pompeo this week. I have decided to oppose the nomination of Mike Pompeo as Secretary of State, he said in a statement. I honor his public service and voted for him to be CIA Director. But in scrutinizing his nomination to be Americas principal diplomat, I cannot overlook grave doubts about his anti-diplomacy disposition.

Pompeos hawkishness on Iran and North Korea and his support of President Donald Trumps decision to bomb Syria while insisting former US President Barack Obama not take military action there appeared to seal the deal for Kaine, who painted the director as a political figure beholden to an overly-aggressive Trump. Now more than ever, we need a Secretary of State who will stand strong for vigorous U.S. diplomacy. I believe that Mike Pompeo would exacerbate President Trumps weaknesses rather than uphold our diplomatic legacy. For this reason, I will vote against his nomination.

Kaine had previously telegraphed his doubts about voting for Pompeo for Secretary of State. Im still weighing it, but Ill tell you, I walked in with serious questions and they werent really laid to rest yesterday by his testimony, Kaine said on CNN on Friday. Kaine was one of two Foreign Relations Committee Democrats to vote in favor of Pompeo at the CIA.

Pompeo needs the support of committee Democrats if he hopes to win confirmation as Americas top diplomat. Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) has said he wont vote for Pompeo, and Senator John McCain (R-AZ) is at home receiving treatment for cancer. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), the other committee Democrat who voted in favor of Pompeo at the CIA, has expressed doubts about him as Secretary of State as well. And Republicans have only a slim 51-49 majority in the Senate right now. John Sullivan, former Deputy Secretary of State, is currently acting Secretary of State.

Not having someone permanently in charge of the State Department, especially given tenuous situations in Iran, North Korea, and Syria, is obviously problematic. The department was eroded under Tillerson, who left the office without any major accomplishments he also pushed to slash inefficiencies at the department, resulting in the resignations of 60 percent of its top-ranking career diplomats.

Trump has numerous other appointed positions throughout the government that he has not yet filled. He often blames that on Democrats, but in many cases, its the president who hasnt nominated anyone.

Pompeo is a former three-term Republican Congress member. Hes known for his hawkish stance on Iran and his grilling of Hillary Clinton over Benghazi, much of which a conspiracy. Trump has grown to like him as director of the CIA, and theyve developed a close relationship over Pompeos daily intelligence briefings.

Voxs Alex Ward, who has a complete explainer on Pompeo and his background, laid out some of the controversy surrounding him and what his appointment might mean:

Theres reason to worry about Pompeos credibility and honesty. He repeatedly misrepresented the Russia assessment, stating that the intelligence community concluded Moscow had no effect on the votes final result when in reality it made no judgments on that. If confirmed, Pompeo will bring his more hawkish worldview to the State Department. Hes supported keeping the US prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, open, defended the CIAs use of torture in the past, and sees Iran and radical Islamic terrorism as top national security threats  all positions closely aligned with those of Trump. That suggests Pompeo will hew closer to Trumps worldview than Tillerson has, which has far-reaching implications for US foreign policy.

During Thursdays Senate hearing, Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) grilled Pompeo about his past associations with prominent anti-Muslim ideologues. Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) pointed out Pompeos multiple conflicting statements, noting that much of what he said at the hearing does not line up with positions hes taken in the past on issues such as the use of military force, Islam, and LGBTQ rights. As we close here, I am trying to think about which Mike Pompeo I will be asked to vote on, he said. It looks like the path ahead for Pompeos confirmation is anything but clear.