In a nearly 7,000 word essay on Monday, Yahoo News hailed a new generation of anti-gentrification activists whove rejected the old, peaceful forms of resistance for terroristic threats and violence aimed at frightening off invaders.

Defend Boyle Heights is a group of activists, mostly of Mexican descent, who are angry over being displaced by white invaders in their Los Angeles communities.

Rather than greet the white folks as immigrants who are coming to diversify and culturally enrich their town, the Defend Boyle Heights activists are working to have them expelled by any means necessary.

LOS ANGELES  The protest at Mariachi Plaza didnt seem, at first, like a declaration of war. In fact, the Feb. 7 event looked like the same sort of grassroots, anti-gentrification gathering that might have taken place in any big American city at any point over the past 10 years as higher-income transplants have increasingly colonized lower-income urban communities, remaking once marginalized neighborhoods in their own cold-brew-and-kombucha image.

But this one was different. Thats because it was organized by Defend Boyle Heights, a coalition of scorched-earth young activists from the surrounding neighborhood  the heart of Mexican-American L.A.  who have rejected the old, peaceful forms of resistance (discussion, dialogue, policy proposals) and decided that the only sensible response is to attack and hopefully frighten off the sorts of art galleries, craft breweries and single-origin coffee shops that tend to pave the way for more powerful invaders: the real estate agents, developers and bankers whose arrival typically mark a neighborhoods point of no return.

Their fighting consists of vandalizing businesses with messages such as FK WHITE ART, inundating white gentrifiers with death threats, holding rallies outside their busineses where they chant dont feel safe, well be back and holding masked, flare lit marches through the streets shouting gentrifiers get the fk out!

Incidentally, in unrelated news, seven Hispanic gang members were indicted in 2016 for fire-bombing African Americans homes in the Ramona Gardens housing project of Boyle Heights to drive them out of their neighborhoods.

Despite Yahoo Newss glowing profile of the radical Defend Boyle Heights group, most of the top comments on the article werent buying their spin: