(CNN) A new Quinnipiac University poll has a striking result: 49% of people said they believe President Donald Trump to be a racist while 47% believe he is not.

Pause and digest that: Half the country -- HALF -- thinks the elected President of the United States harbors racist views.

What explains it? No one thing.

Here are the two most obvious options.

1. This question, like all questions tied to Trump, is effectively a measure of whether you love or hate the President. So, 86% of Republicans say Trump isn't a racist and 86% of Democrats say he is. Independents, who view Trump slightly more negatively than positively overall, have similar view on whether he is a racist: 50% say he is, 44% say he is not.

The "racist" numbers are not a direct facsimile of Trump's overall approval numbers, of course. More people feel unfavorably about Trump's job performance (55%) than say he is a racist (49%). But it's close.

When you dabble in casual racism -- whether purposely or accidentally (and it's hard to know which one Trump is doing each time), some decent-sized chunk of people are going to believe that you are -- wait for it -- a racist.

Trump's response to the consistent finding that half the country believes him to be a racist -- Quinnipiac found 49% saying that of Trump back in February -- is to not only insist that he isn't a racist but, in typical Trumpian overstatement, that he is the least racist person in the world.

Actions, of course, speak louder than words. And Trump's actions, at a minimum, raise questions about his views on race.

Trump may not care about these findings -- which aren't a one-off, but rather a consistent sign that half the country feels this way. Why might he not care? Because 86% of Republicans believe he is not a racist and even higher numbers approve of him. And Trump has run a base-focused presidency from beginning to end.

Of course, there are some issues that should transcend mere partisan calculation. It is an inarguably bad thing -- no matter which party you identify with -- for one half of the country to think the nation's top elected leader is a racist.

Trump may not care. But he should. He very much should.