Rachel Brand, the No. 3 official at the Department of Justice, is resigning after just nine months on the job  a decision with big ramifications for special counsel Robert Muellers investigations.

Heres why: Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is currently in charge of overseeing the Mueller probe. Rosenstein has said that he wont fire Mueller without good cause.

But if Trump were to fire Rosenstein, or if he were to recuse himself from the investigation or quit outright, the responsibility for overseeing the probe would go to the next in line: Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand.

Which means that whoever Trump picks to replace Brand could potentially end up in charge of the Mueller investigation. Technically, the next in line is Solicitor General Noel Francisco, who is now serving in Brands role in an acting capacity. But legal experts told me that Trump has the authority to name anyone he wants to replace Brand.

And heres the scary thing: That person might follow Trumps order to dismiss the special counsel.

That can only happen if Rosenstein no longer oversees Mueller  and thats still a distinct possibility for three reasons.

First, Rosenstein could recuse himself from overseeing Mueller because he had a hand in firing former FBI Director James Comey. Mueller became the special counsel because Trump may have let go Comey go in order to obstruct the Russia investigation. So if Rosenstein recuses himself  legal experts, like Jack Goldsmith at Lawfare think he should  then Muellers boss becomes whomever Trump may soon name.

Second, Trump could simply fire Rosenstein  and theres reason to think he might. Trump allies expected last weeks release of the memo from Rep. Devin Nunes would prompt Rosensteins dismissal. Trump has consistently made his displeasure with Rosenstein known, at one point claiming hes a Democrat even though Rosenstein is a lifelong Republican.

And finally, Rosenstein could resign if Trump ordered him to fire Mueller. Rosenstein has reiterated time and time again that he has yet to see any reason to fire Mueller. So if Trump does ask Rosenstein to let Mueller go  and Rosenstein declines  Trump could fire Rosenstein. And so, again, Trumps hand-picked successor would oversee Mueller  and then possibly fire him.

Its worth noting that the White House continues to say Trump has no plans to fire Mueller. The president even said he expects Mueller to treat him fairly. But that wont stop legal experts, like former top Justice Department spokesperson Matthew Miller, from worrying who the administration will choose to replace Brand.

According to Adam Goldman of the New York Times, Brand took a job as the global governance director for Walmart. Laura Jarret at CNN reported that a friend of Brand said that it was a job you dont turn down.

But theres a bigger context to her resignation.

In recent days, Trump has escalated his war against federal law enforcement. For example, on Wednesday Trump said that newly released texts from FBI officials were a bombshell because they allegedly showed corruption within the bureau. However, there is currently no evidence of widespread corruption within the bureau to depose Trump.

Trumps broadside fits into a larger pattern. He consistently attacks top law enforcement agents because they wont help him contain Muellers probe. He lambastes Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from from overseeing the Mueller investigation, and he criticizes Rosenstein for not halting Muellers progress.

Trump appointed both Sessions and Rosenstein to their posts, and yet is still angry with them. Thats an uncomfortable atmosphere for any official at the Department of Justice.