MSNBC talking head Rob Reiner was allowed more tv time to share his rampant Trump derangement, bringing on his own wife and declaring that Trump is like Hitler, and all Trump supporters are hardcore racists.

Reiner and his wife Michele appeared on Sundays AM Joy, hosted by Joy Reid, to impart their wisdom and expertise on immigration policy.

Reiner repeatedly stated that those who think people who try to enter the US illegally should be prosecuted are racists.

Lets cut to the chase  this is about racism. This is pure and simple racism  thats all this is. Reiner declared.

Hes hoping that the people who support him will be ginned up and running to the polls to make sure that brown people dont come into America. Thats exactly whats going on here. he added.

Reid suggested that Trump is attempting to rile up his base by separating brown children and parents.

Michele Reiner chimed in to exclaim that This is based on racism, period, adding that they dont want more brown people coming into this country.

And then it inevitably happened... Trump is literally Hitler.

I have to tell you, my mother was in Auschwitz. She got separated from her entire family  lost her entire family. I never thought I would live to see something like that, particularly in this country, ever again in my lifetime. Reiner said.

Theres somewhat of a difference between lawfully policing the border and executing families in death camps though right?

This is inhuman. What were doing in the United States of America is inhuman.Reiner exclaimed, adding Its the only thing he can sell to that racist base of his.

They follow the exact pattern that Hitler has  I hate to say it  with the propaganda, even down to  the Red Cross went into Auschwitz. They cleaned it up for two days  it looked fine  they went back  they said everything seems fine there. Michele Reiner added.

Every single thing that Obama did, hes dismantling. Every single thing. And dont tell me thats not racist. Mrs Reiner declared.

That is not racist. Trump signed an executive order overturning the Obama policy of separating children and families.

To quote that new book that just came out, he is evil. He is evil. Mrs Reiner continued, adding And the thing is, I thought, Hell come in and he wont really know because hes not that smart smart, and hell just do a showmanship thing, but hes evil.

Okaaaaaaay. That didnt come across as unhinged at all.

MSNBC continues to devote airtime to talking heads like this who look patently ridiculous as they rant about Trump being Hitler.

MSNBC talking head Donny Deutsch declared on Morning Joe Friday that Americans who agree with President Trump on immigration are akin to Nazi guards.

If you vote for Trump then you, the voter, you, not Donald Trump, are standing at the border, like Nazis, going you here, you here, Deutsch urged.