It wasnt clear who won the special election for Pennsylvanias 18th congressional district on Tuesday night. With Democrat Conor Lamb maintaining a narrow lead of 847 votes over Republican Rick Saccone with 99% of precincts reporting, the result could still go either way.

However, it was clear who lost the election: Donald Trump.



Saccone ran as an extension of Trump in a district the US president won by 20 points in 2016. He said he would be Trumps wingman in Washington and touted himself as Trump before Trump. Saccone appeared with Trump in a rally only days before the election and held campaign events with two of the presidents children as well as a number of administration officials.

The photo finish in such a deep red district made clear how much Trumps standing has fallen since 2016 and gives Democrats increased optimism for Novembers midterm elections.

Some voters cast their ballot based on Trump. Outside a polling place in Bethel Park, Pennsylvania, Joe Morgan told the Guardian: I approve of the way the president is trying to put the country in a better spot and I think voting Republican will help him do that.

In contrast, another voter, Paul Kane, told the Guardian he voted for Lamb because Trumps an asshole.

Three counties have yet to count absentee ballots, delaying any final result. The vote for Libertarian candidate Drew Miller was larger than than the margin between Lamb and Saccone  despite Miller receiving less than 1% of the vote.

Speaking briefly on stage late Tuesday night, Saccone insisted he was still fighting the fight and promised a crowd of supporters who had enjoyed an open bar and buffet featuring meatballs and crab dip: Were going to fight all the way to the end.

In contrast, Democrats preemptively declared victory. In a press release, Ben Ray Lujan, the head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, congratulated Lamb on his incredible victory and insisted: These results should terrify Republicans.

The election was not just about Trump and national issues. Lamb, a former marine with deep political roots in the district, ran as a moderate who steadfastly avoided any mention of the White House. He also benefited from heavy support from organized labor in a district that included a mix of suburban Pittsburgh and coal country.

In contrast, Saccone was a weak candidate and lackluster fundraiser, which forced outside Republican groups to spend over $10m to aid him.

The race took place under unusual circumstances. The district itself will not exist for the midterm elections after the Pennsylvania supreme court ruled the current congressional map unconstitutional. The vacancy was created when the pro-life Republican Tim Murphy resigned in disgrace after it was revealed he had pressured his mistress to have an abortion.

If Lamb pulls out a win, it would be the first time Democrats have picked up a seat in the House of Representatives since Trump took office. They endured disappointing losses in special elections for the House in states such as Montana and Georgia in 2017.

Republicans did lose a special election for the United States Senate in Alabama in 2017 but only after their nominee, Roy Moore, faced credible allegations of sexually assaulting teenage girls.