Donald Trump has threatened to veto the omnibus spending bill that was passed by Congress on Thursday, raising the spectre of another government shutdown.

In a Friday morning tweet, the president cited the lack of immigration measures in the $1.3tn budget, which passed the House and Senate on Thursday hours after the 2,232-page text was released to lawmakers and despite opposition from groups on the right and left.

Without new funding the federal government would be partially shut down, a third such closure in months.

Trumps move was a total reversal from White House statements issued on Thursday.

A White House press release trumpeted the bill as a win for border security and said: President Donald J Trump has succeeded in securing funding for priorities that protect and support all Americans.

Greeting the budgets boost for military spending, Trump was quoted as saying: We must work across party lines to give our heroic troops the equipment, resources, and support that they have earned a thousand times over.

Speaking to reporters in the White House briefing room, Mick Mulvaney, the head of Office of Management and Budget, insisted Trump would sign the bill into law.

Is the president going to sign the bill? The answer is yes, Mulvaney told reporters.

The top Trump aide did note that the White House did not consider the omnibus bill to be ideal, as it contained compromises.

This is what it looks like when you dont have 60 votes in the Senate and Democrats get to take their pound of flesh, Mulvaney said.

The bill takes some actions on gun control and the opioids crisis but does not include protections for young undocumented migrants brought to the country as children, known as Dreamers and previously protected under an Obama-era executive order, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or Daca. 



The budget does include $1.6bn for barriers on the southern border but it is not authorized to be used on the wall prototypes Trump recently viewed in California. Trumps presidential campaign made building a wall on the US-Mexico border a signature issue, the candidate repeatedly promising that Mexico would pay for it.

I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill, Trump wrote on Friday morning, based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded.

The DACA program was canceled by Trump in September 2017. However, ongoing litigation has kept protection for many Dreamers in place.

Trump previously rejected a deal with Democrats that would have protected Dreamers in exchange for $25bn for a border wall.



DACA was abandoned by the Democrats, Trump tweeted. Very unfair to them! Would have been tied to desperately needed Wall.



Trump was scheduled to leave Washington for his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida on Friday evening. In the capital, the House has adjourned.

Congressional leaders from both parties did not immediately comment. Mark Meadows, chair of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus, tweeted his support.

Lets pass a short term [bill] while you negotiate a better deal for the forgotten men and women of America, he wrote.

Bob Corker of Tennessee, a budget hawk who has clashed fiercely with Trump, tweeted: Please do, Mr President. I am just down the street and will bring you a pen. The spending levels without any offsets are grotesque, throwing all of our children under the bus. Totally irresponsible.

A senior Democratic aide on Capitol Hill told the Guardian: One of two things will happen. He either signs the bill by the end of the day or he ends up signing a bill he likes even less after Republicans have to renegotiate with Democrats to get out of a shutdown.