Former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who claims she had an affair with President Donald Trump in 2006, has said he tried to pay her for sex.

In an interview with CNN, Ms McDougal revealed that she cried on the way home after Mr Trump offered her money during their first encounter.

She also apologised to the president's wife Melania for the alleged 10-month affair, saying: "I'm sorry. I wouldn't want it done to me."

Ms McDougal signed a deal worth $150,000 to tell her story exclusively to a tabloid newspaper in 2016.

However, the article was never published and Ms McDougal insists she was tricked into silence about the relationship.

She is now suing the publication to end the deal.

Ms McDougal is one of three women who have launched law suits over affairs or sexual assault claims involving the president.

These are the other two:

Porn actress Stormy Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, says she and Mr Trump had a sexual relationship lasting several months in 2006.

She says that she was paid $130,000 (around 92,000) by Mr Trump's lawyer to remain silent about the affair just before the 2016 election.

Ms Clifford has now filed a lawsuit which aims to scrap the agreement, which her lawyer says she was physically threatened into accepting.

Earlier this year, an interview she gave to InTouch magazine in 2011 about her alleged relationship with Mr Trump resurfaced.

A polygraph test from the interview obtained by CBS News concluded that she had been "truthful" in her account.

The president has denied any sexual relationship with the actress.

His lawyers are now suing Ms Daniels for $20m (14m) for breaching the non-disclosure agreement.

An interview with Ms Daniels is due to air on CBS News on Sunday.

Summer Zervos, a former contestant on The Apprentice, was one of a number of women who made allegations of sexual misconduct against Donald Trump during the 2016 presidential race.

She accuses Mr Trump of sexually assaulting her at a Beverly Hills hotel in 2007.

Ms Zervos says that he groped her and "began thrusting his genitals" during a meeting to discuss employment opportunities.

While president-elect, Mr Trump dismissed the allegations against him and said that Ms Zervos and other accusers were "sick" and driven by fame, money or politics.

Ms Zervos filed a defamation law suit against Mr Trump in January 2017, but his lawyers argued that as the president he could not be sued.

A judge in New York has now overturned that decision, meaning that Ms Zervos's case against the president will continue.