Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster began his tenure as national security adviser as one of the most celebrated military leaders of his generation. But President Donald Trump let him go on Thursday after just over a year in the administration  leaving McMasters once-sterling reputation in tatters and the White House in even more disarray.

In a tweet, Trump announced that McMaster would make way for former United Nations Ambassador John Bolton, but that McMaster will always remain my friend. McMaster will retire from the military, according to the New York Times. Bolton will assume McMasters role on April 9.

H.R. McMaster has served his country with distinction for more than 30 years, Trump said in a statement. General McMasters leadership of the National Security Council staff has helped my administration accomplish great things to bolster Americas national security.

On March 15, the Washington Post reported that Trump had decided to oust McMaster but didnt do so because he wanted to ensure there was a prominent successor in place and that McMaster has his next job lined up. But now Trump finally followed through.

McMaster follows closely behind Rex Tillerson, whom Trump fired on March 13. Hours after Tillersons removal, McMaster told a reporter, Hey, Im still around.

It wasnt supposed to end this way. McMaster  along with Defense Secretary James Mattis and, at the time, Tillerson  was labeled an adult in the room whose military and strategic expertise would help him gain Trumps trust and moderate the presidents most potentially dangerous foreign policy impulses.

Instead, McMaster soon found himself at odds with both the president and other top administration officials. Trump, for example, pushed back hard against McMaster on crucial national security decisions, particularly the decision to escalate the war in Afghanistan.

Trump also publicly lambasted McMaster for saying the evidence that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election was incontrovertible  a fact the president repeatedly denies. McMaster also advocated for a more militaristic stance toward North Korea, consistently warning that time was running out before a potential war with Pyongyang.

But McMaster perhaps struggled most simply dealing with Trump. A National Security Council (NSC) staffer who worked with McMaster and is not authorized to speak publicly about internal matters told me that no policy decision Trump took was ever final until it was actually implemented.

In other words, it was hard for McMaster and his team to put a policy in place because the presidents wishes sometimes changed on a dime. That, in part, made it difficult for McMaster to simply do his job.

Plus, according to the Post, Trump didnt like McMasters style: The president has complained that McMaster is too rigid and that his briefings go on too long and seem irrelevant.

I cant say that if another person was occupying the position right now, that theyd be doing a markedly better job, Jake Sullivan, who was considered a lock to be Hillary Clintons national security adviser had she won the election, told me before the firing announcement.

Trumps personal flaws aside, McMaster made errors of his own. For example, he publicly offered a widely scrutinized non-denial denial that Trump shared classified intelligence with Russians in the Oval Office.

So an Iraq War veteran who famously wrote that military advisers should speak truth to power and act honorably  especially when it was hard  lasted about a year in the Trump White House. Worse still, McMasters hard-earned reputation will be irreparably damaged by his association with Trump.

With the possible exception of Henry Kissinger holding the NSC together while Nixon was flailing during Watergate, it would be hard to imagine a genuinely successful national security adviser with a failing president, William Inboden, a top NSC staffer in the George W. Bush administration, told me. The fate of the two are so linked.

McMaster was not Trumps first choice to be national security adviser. That was Michael Flynn, a retired three-star Army general who strongly supported Trump during the campaign. But after only 24 days in the role, Trump fired Flynn because he lied to Vice President Mike Pence about his communications with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak after the election  a personnel move Trump still regrets having to make.

Trump then tried to lure retired Navy Vice Adm. Robert Harward, a Lockheed Martin executive, to take Flynns place. But Harward turned down the offer because the White House wouldnt let him put his own team together. So the search continued until Trump heeded the advice of Armed Services Committee Chair Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AK), and Mattis, who all said the president should pick McMaster.

Hes a man of tremendous talent and tremendous experience, Trump said during the unveiling of McMaster as his new national security adviser on February 20, 2017. I watched and read a lot over the last two days. He is highly respected by everyone in the military, and were very honored to have him.

McMaster was one of the few Trump appointments to draw praise from Democrats and Republicans alike. Rhode Island Sen. Jack Reed, the top Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, said McMaster had a reputation for courage and candor. Bill Kristol, a conservative critic of the administration, tweeted, I can't imagine anyone better prepared for the challenges of being Trump's NSA than H.R. McMaster. Michael McFaul, a former ambassador to Russia under President Barack Obama, tweeted, I have a lot of respect for H.R.

The acclaim stemmed, in part, from McMasters image as a warrior-scholar. McMasters only book, Dereliction of Duty, is a best-selling history on the Vietnam War that concludes that President Lyndon Johnsons military advisers should have pushed the administration harder to adopt their assessments and recommendations for the conflict. Had Johnson listened to them, McMaster argues, America might have done better in Southeast Asia. The war in Vietnam was not lost in the field, nor was it lost on the front pages of the New York Times or the college campuses, McMaster wrote. It was lost in Washington, DC.

Many inside and outside the White House expected that McMaster would get the National Security Council in order, work closely with other Cabinet members like Mattis and Tillerson, and offer his unvarnished military advice to the president.

Early on, at least, McMaster offered some reasons for optimism. On April 5, 2017, just over a month into the job, he removed Steve Bannon, then a top Trump aide, from the NSC  political aides havent historically been allowed to attend  and returned Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford to their historic roles as regular attendees of the gatherings.

The next day, Trump authorized a Tomahawk missile strike against a Syrian base that Bashar al-Assad had used to mount a chemical weapons attack against his own citizens; McMaster helped guide the decision-making process, which was widely praised. He also removed some of Flynns staff holdovers, most notably his then-deputy K.T. McFarland, who had drawn criticism for inexperience and acting as a partisan in a famously apolitical role.

But by May, internal squabbles started to play out in public. The biggest problem was that McMaster recommended Trump send more troops to Afghanistan  advice that initially rankled many in the White House, most notably Trump himself.

During a mid-July meeting, McMaster put forward a plan to send up to 3,900 new US troops to bolster the Afghan government in its flagging fight against the Taliban (at the time, there were about 8,400 American troops already in the country).

The meeting was a shitshow, according to a July 24, 2017, Politico report, as Trump rejected McMasters plan and words were exchanged. The president was wary of spending more blood and treasure in Afghanistan, especially when the US had lost around 2,400 troops and civilians since the war began in October 2001 and failed to deal a body blow to the Taliban. The extremist group controls, influences, or contests more than 40 percent of the country.

McMasters enemies in the administration, at the time led by Bannon, took advantage of Trumps displeasure with McMasters Afghanistan proposal. They mockingly dubbed the fight in Central Asia McMasters War and ruthlessly attacked the national security adviser during the Afghanistan debate to ruin his standing with the president.

On policy, the faction of the White House loyal to senior strategist Steve Bannon is convinced McMaster is trying to trick the president into the kind of nation building that Trump campaigned against, Bloomberg Views Eli Lake wrote on May 8, 2017.

Theres no doubting that Trump was reluctant to deepen Americas involvement in what was already the longest war in US history. But on August 21, 2017, Trump took McMasters advice and ordered more US troops to Afghanistan  even though it went against his initial beliefs.

My original instinct was to pull out  and, historically, I like following my instincts, Trump told a military crowd at Fort Myer, which is near Arlington Cemetery. But all my life Ive heard that decisions are much different when you sit behind the desk in the Oval Office; in other words, when youre president of the United States.

Afghanistan wasnt the only time Trump and McMaster were at odds. Last May, Trump said that South Korea would have to pay for the THAAD missile defense system, which Seoul wants to protect itself from North Koreas ever-improving missile and nuclear programs. Trump promptly screamed at McMaster over the phone for contradicting him.

Trump was also expected to use a speech at NATOs headquarters on May 25, 2017 to specifically endorse the alliances Article 5 provision, which calls for collective defense and says that an attack on any NATO nation is considered to be an attack on all of them. In advance of the speech, McMaster expected Trump to read language underscoring Americas support for Article 5. Instead, Trump omitted those 27 words, sparking new doubts about his commitment to the military alliance.

Trump also met with Russian President Vladimir Putin during last Julys G20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany, despite McMasters objections. While national security advisers usually attend those bilaterals, only Tillerson accompanied Trump.

And in February 2018, McMaster told an audience at the Munich Security Conference that Russia had meddled in the 2016 presidential election. The evidence is now really incontrovertible and available in the public domain, whereas in the past it was difficult to attribute, McMaster said in his remarks.

Trump quickly tweeted his displeasure with the comments, stating that General McMaster forgot to say that the results of the 2016 election were not impacted or changed by the Russians.

It also didnt help that McMasters persistent chatter during meetings annoyed Trump, according to a New York Times report last May. During some of them, McMaster tried to correct or add color to what the president was saying  with Trump right there.

McMaster did have some successes, however. Besides the Syria strike, McMaster helped to guide Trumps thinking about North Korea. He believed the US could not deter North Korean leader Kim Jong Un from continuing to expand his nuclear weapons program, and argued that the chance for war grew with each passing day. Were in a race, really, to able to solve this problem, McMaster said during last Decembers Reagan National Defense Forum.

He argued that the only way to change Kims mind was with the threat  and possible use  of military force. For months, rumors swirled that the administration had developed a plan for a so-called bloody nose strike. The plan was widely viewed as McMasters brainchild, although top officials deny that a bloody nose strike was ever an option.

But if the administration chooses to move forward with any military moves against North Korea, it will do so without McMaster in the White House.

No one questions McMasters intellect. The problem was he always seemed out of his depths as Trumps top national security adviser. After all, he spent his life in the military and not much time dealing with Washington politics.

After Trump shared highly sensitive intelligence about an ISIS plot with top Russian officials on May 10, 2017, McMaster twice publicly defended the presidents actions. He didnt deny that Trump had actually given that intelligence to an adversary and possibly put an Israeli spy  who was reportedly deep under cover in an ISIS cell  in danger.

Instead, McMaster claimed what Trump did was wholly appropriate and even acknowledged that Trump didnt know where the intelligence he shared came from. Thats not something a seasoned political hand says to explain away why the president made a potentially costly mistake.

McMaster later spoke during a June 28 Center for a New American Security conference in a keynote address. Trying to defend Trumps foreign policy is tough enough. But McMasters insistence that Trumps criticism of European allies stemmed from tough love sparked literal laughter from the crowd.

Michele Flournoy, the events moderator and a well-respected national security professional, pushed back on the comment. I can tell you that they are not feeling very loved at the moment, she said, prompting more laughter. Theyre feeling the tough part, but not the love part.

McMaster also helped write two stunningly partisan op-eds on the administrations purported policy accomplishments, which raised eyebrows because uniformed military officers are supposed to strictly stay clear of politics. His co-author was Gary Cohn, Trumps then-top economic adviser, who resigned earlier this month.

The two men defended the presidents first foreign trip to the Middle East and Europe in the Wall Street Journal on May 30, 2017, claiming Trumps presence and actions showed just how willing America was to work with allies and partners. That was the same trip where Trump refused to commit to NATOs Article 5, alarming key US allies around the world.

And in the July 13, 2017, New York Times piece, they argued Americas foreign policy was going well, and that Trump got what he wanted out of the G20 meetings. But thats not how many who tuned in to the gathering saw it. Putin outplayed Trump when the Russian leader got the president to accept his narrative that Moscow didnt interfere in the election. The Weekly Standard, a conservative magazine, even called it a diplomatic depantsing.

So while serving Trump is surely difficult, understanding McMasters downfall would be incomplete without noting that the general  as talented as he is  made some critical mistakes along the way.

Unless an advisers policy recommendations and administrative style coincide with the presidents own immediate emotions and interests, there is great potential for conflict, Bartholomew Sparrow, who wrote a book about former National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, told me. There was an accumulation of serious differences in substance and process to make the relationship unsustainable. McMaster couldnt keep riding the tiger.

McMasters time as national security adviser may not have amounted to a dereliction of duty, but the general definitely didnt meet the standards he had set for others. Future historians may be as critical of McMaster as McMaster was of the disgraced generals who led the US to defeat in Vietnam.