Stephon Clark was standing in the backyard of his grandparents house, where he was staying, when police confronted him. Within seconds, officers would open fire, shooting 20 rounds as one of them shouted, Gun! Gun! It would turn out, though, that the black 22-year-old was unarmed  what police said was a gun was really a cellphone.

The shooting, which happened on Sunday in Sacramento, California, is the latest to draw widespread criticism and protest as the Black Lives Matter movement has put a greater focus on racial disparities in police shootings and the criminal justice system.

According to a press release from the Sacramento Police Department, officers were in the area at night, investigating reports of a man who allegedly broke car windows and hid in a backyard. A helicopter directed the two officers to Clark.

Body camera footage, released Wednesday, gives some idea of what happened next, though its hard to make out many details because it was dark out. The officers approached Clark as he walked to his backyard. One officer shouted, Show me your hands! Stop! Clark continued to walk, ending up in the backyard. The officers pursued him. Within seconds of coming face to face with Clark, the cop shouted more orders  Show me your hands!  and finally yelled, Gun, gun, gun!

The two officers on the scene then fired 20 shots  never identifying themselves as police before they killed Clark.

The officers claimed they feared for their safety, believing that Clark was advancing toward them with a firearm. After the shooting, the officers can be heard in the video asking each other if they were hurt.

About six minutes after the shooting, backup arrived, and officers administered aid to Clark, failing to revive him. He was declared dead at the scene.

Around this point, one officer also asked others on the scene to mute their mics  and they proceed to talk. Sacramento police spokesperson Vance Chandler told the Sacramento Bee, There are a variety of reasons why officers have the opportunity to mute their body worn cameras.

The identities of the two officers have not yet been released. They have both been put on paid administrative leave, as is standard policy at the Sacramento Police Department. An investigation into the shooting is underway.

The city implemented reforms in 2016 after the fatal shooting of Joseph Mann, a black man with mental health issues. Among other changes, the reforms require the release of videos within 30 days of a shooting.

Local activists are already pushing for more reforms following the shooting, according to the Sacramento Bee. Meanwhile, Clarks death has become the latest incident of police use of force to draw nationwide attention since the police shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014  with critics arguing that it represents the vast racial disparities in how police use force.

Based on nationwide data collected by the Guardian, black Americans are more than twice as likely as their white counterparts to be killed by police when accounting for population. In 2016, police killed black Americans at a rate of 6.66 per 1 million people, compared to 2.9 per 1 million for white Americans.

There have also been several high-profile police killings since 2014 involving black suspects. In Baltimore, six police officers were indicted for the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody. In North Charleston, South Carolina, Michael Slager was charged with murder and fired from the police department after shooting Walter Scott, who was fleeing and unarmed at the time. In Ferguson, Darren Wilson killed unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown. In New York City, NYPD officer Daniel Pantaleo killed Eric Garner by putting the unarmed 43-year-old black man in a chokehold.

One possible explanation for the racial disparities: Police tend to patrol high-crime neighborhoods, which are disproportionately black. That means theyre going to be generally more likely to initiate a policing action, from traffic stops to more serious arrests, against a black person who lives in these areas. And all of these policing actions carry a chance, however small, to escalate into a violent confrontation.

Thats not to say that higher crime rates in black communities explain the entire racial disparity in police shootings. A 2015 study by researcher Cody Ross found, There is no relationship between county-level racial bias in police shootings and crime rates (even race-specific crime rates), meaning that the racial bias observed in police shootings in this data set is not explainable as a response to local-level crime rates. That suggests something else  such as, potentially, racial bias  is going on.

One reason to believe racial bias is a factor: Studies show that officers are quicker to shoot black suspects in video game simulations. Josh Correll, a University of Colorado Boulder psychology professor who conducted the research, said its possible the bias could lead to even more skewed outcomes in the field. In the very situation in which [officers] most need their training, he said, we have some reason to believe that their training will be most likely to fail them.

Part of the solution to potential bias is better training that helps cops acknowledge and deal with their potential prejudices. But critics also argue that more accountability could help deter future brutality or excessive use of force, since it would make it clear that there are consequences to the misuse and abuse of police powers. Yet right now, lax legal standards make it difficult to legally punish individual police officers for use of force, even when it might be excessive.

Legally, what most matters in police shootings is whether police officers reasonably believed that their lives were in immediate danger, not whether the shooting victim actually posed a threat.

In the 1980s, a pair of Supreme Court decisions  Tennessee v. Garner and Graham v. Connor  set up a framework for determining when deadly force by cops is reasonable.

Constitutionally, police officers are allowed to shoot under two circumstances, David Klinger, a University of Missouri St. Louis professor who studies use of force, previously told Dara Lind for Vox. The first circumstance is to protect their life or the life of another innocent party  what departments call the defense-of-life standard. The second circumstance is to prevent a suspect from escaping, but only if the officer has probable cause to think the suspect poses a dangerous threat to others.

The logic behind the second circumstance, Klinger said, comes from a Supreme Court decision called Tennessee v. Garner. That case involved a pair of police officers who shot a 15-year-old boy as he fled from a burglary. (Hed stolen $10 and a purse from a house.) The court ruled that cops couldnt shoot every felon who tried to escape. But, as Klinger said, they basically say that the job of a cop is to protect people from violence, and if youve got a violent person whos fleeing, you can shoot them to stop their flight.

The key to both of the legal standards  defense of life and fleeing a violent felony  is that it doesnt matter whether there is an actual threat when force is used. Instead, what matters is the officers objectively reasonable belief that there is a threat.

That standard comes from the other Supreme Court case that guides use-of-force decisions: Graham v. Connor. This was a civil lawsuit brought by a man whod survived his encounter with police officers, but whod been treated roughly, had his face shoved into the hood of a car, and broken his foot  all while he was suffering a diabetic attack.

The court didnt rule on whether the officers treatment of him had been justified, but it did say that the officers couldnt justify their conduct just based on whether their intentions were good. They had to demonstrate that their actions were objectively reasonable, given the circumstances and compared to what other police officers might do.

Whats objectively reasonable changes as the circumstances change. One cant just say, Because I could use deadly force 10 seconds ago, that means I can use deadly force again now, Walter Katz, a California attorney who specializes in oversight of law enforcement agencies, previously said.

In general, officers are given lot of legal latitude to use force without fear of punishment. The intention behind these legal standards is to give police officers leeway to make split-second decisions to protect themselves and bystanders. And although critics argue that these legal standards give law enforcement a license to kill innocent or unarmed people, police officers say they are essential to their safety.

For some critics, the question isnt whats legally justified but rather whats preventable. We have to get beyond what is legal and start focusing on what is preventable. Most are preventable, Ronald Davis, a former police chief who previously headed the Justice Departments Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, told the Washington Post. Police need to stop chasing down suspects, hopping fences, and landing on top of someone with a gun, he added. When they do that, they have no choice but to shoot."

Police are very rarely prosecuted for shootings  and not just because the law allows them wide latitude to use force on the job. Sometimes the investigations fall onto the same police department the officer is from, which creates major conflicts of interest. Other times the only available evidence comes from eyewitnesses, who may not be as trustworthy in the public eye as a police officer.

There is a tendency to believe an officer over a civilian, in terms of credibility, David Rudovsky, a civil rights lawyer who co-wrote Prosecuting Misconduct: Law and Litigation, previously told Amanda Taub for Vox. And when an officer is on trial, reasonable doubt has a lot of bite. A prosecutor needs a very strong case before a jury will say that somebody who we generally trust to protect us has so seriously crossed the line as to be subject to a conviction.

If police are charged, theyre very rarely convicted. The National Police Misconduct Reporting Project analyzed 3,238 criminal cases against police officers from April 2009 through December 2010. They found that only 33 percent were convicted, and only 36 percent of officers who were convicted ended up serving prison sentences. Both of those are about half the rate at which members of the public are convicted or incarcerated.

The statistics suggest that it would have been a truly rare situation if the officers who shot and killed Clark were charged and convicted of a crime.