Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis lost the person who helped him check President Donald Trumps worst foreign policy impulses when Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Tuesday.

During Trumps first 14 months in office, Mattis and Tillerson formed a united front to push back against the president on key national security issues. They ensured Trump didnt totally destroy North Korea, they persuaded him to stay in the Iran deal (for now), and they convinced him that supporting NATO was better than not.

However, experts say, this change could actually work to Mattiss advantage.

One reason is that Tillerson never connected with Trump, so Mattis had to do much of the heavy lifting to convince the president and other administration officials to see things their way. But Trumps choice to replace Tillerson, current CIA Director Mike Pompeo, could prove a valuable ally for Mattis for one simple reason that sounds a little counterintuitive: Hes a Trump loyalist.

Pompeo has the presidents ear and the presidents confidence, Christine Wormuth, the Pentagons top policy official from 2014 to 2016, told me. In the cases where Mattis and Pompeo agree, I think it could actually be better in terms of their ability to shape the presidents views.

And Mattis on Thursday lost another person who helped check the president: former National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster. Trump let McMaster go and replaced him with former US Ambassador John Bolton. McMaster will retire from the military.

But if Mattis forms a bond with Pompeo, the defense secretarys advice  which Trump already highly respects  might carry even more weight with him.

Theres a potential (large) hiccup, though: Pompeo sides with Trump on several major foreign policy issues; he believes the US should end the Iran deal and act forcefully against North Korea.

If Pompeo chooses to be a constraining influence against Trump, he could potentially be a Mattis ally, Tom Wright, a foreign policy expert at the Brookings Institution think tank, told me. But if he cant speak truth to power, or doesnt push back on Trump, then he could be a big problem.

During his farewell statement on Tuesday, Tillerson bragged about the close partnership between the Pentagon and Foggy Bottom: Im told for the first time in most peoples memory, the Department of State and Department of Defense have a close working relationship where we all agree that US leadership starts with diplomacy.

But Tillersons choice to highlight the partnership spoke volumes. Over the course of their year together, Mattis and Tillerson bonded, in part because they frequently discussed thorny foreign policy problems. They often formed a united front when presenting policy positions to the president or other key staff.

Were operating with very much a depth to our State Department  not outside the State Departments foreign policy, but inside it, Mattis said during a January 19 speech unveiling the new National Security Strategy. [I]t starts with me having breakfast every week with Secretary of State Tillerson. And we talk two, three times a day, sometimes. We settle all of our issues between he and I, and then we walk together into the White House meetings. That way, State and Defense are together.

They even publicly laid out their joint strategic thinking for how to deal with Pyongyang in a Wall Street Journal op-ed last August, noting that diplomacy is our preferred means of changing North Koreas course of action, [but] it is backed by military options. When asked by reporters about issues ranging from Syria to Afghanistan to North Korea, Mattis typically reiterates that diplomats lead Americas foreign policy efforts.

But no matter how much Mattis and Tillerson coordinated, Trump found a way to consistently  and publicly  break with his secretary of state.

Last June, Trump slammed Qatar as a state sponsor of terrorism just one hour after Tillerson defended the country. Three months later, Tillerson told reporters at the United Nations that Trump was still considering whether to decertify Irans compliance with the nuclear deal. But a few hours earlier, Trump told reporters that he had made up his mind on the matter.

And in December 2017, Trump rebuffed Tillersons effort to open a diplomatic channel with North Korea. As if to turn the knife, Trump then kept Tillerson out of the loop while he accepted a high-stakes meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

Mattis, meanwhile, remains in good standing. Trump praised Mattis during his State of the Union address in January, saying he was doing a good job. Clearly, Mattiss advice to Trump and other officials  which, again, he coordinated with Tillerson  didnt tarnish the defense secretarys reputation. In effect, Mattis didnt really need Tillerson to get his points across.

Even if Tillerson and Mattis agreed on everything, Tillersons ability to persuade the president wasnt high, Wormuth, who is now at the Atlantic Council, told me. Its unclear just how much Tillerson added to their partnership.

An unnamed Republican went so far as to tell Politico on Tuesday that Tillersons need for Mattiss backing was like a drowning man clinging to a life raft.

When I asked Pentagon spokesperson Dana White if Tillersons ouster would leave Mattis more isolated when presenting advice to the president, she simply replied, No.

The question, then, is if Pompeo will prove an anchor or a buoy to Mattis  a policy ally or a policy foe. The jurys still out on that.

If Pompeo becomes the next secretary of state, Trump will have someone in that role he didnt have with Tillerson: a like-minded person.

Here are just some examples: Pompeo repeatedly misrepresented the intelligence communitys January 2017 assessment that Russia tried to help Trump win the 2016 presidential election, saying the report shows Moscow had no effect on the votes final result.

Pompeo has also said he wants to end the Iran deal, a 2015 agreement between the US, Iran, and European and Asian powers that lifted a series of punishing economic sanctions in exchange for Tehran accepting strict curbs on its nuclear-related activities  just like Trump.

He sees the threat from terrorist groups such as ISIS and al-Qaeda as a top national security threat, and criticized the Obama administration for its refusal to call it radical Islamic terrorism  also like Trump. And he consistently defends the presidents forceful stance against North Korea, saying on Sunday that the US will make no concessions to Pyongyang even as a potential Trump-Kim summit looms.

Most crucially, Pompeo quickly developed a close relationship with the president while serving as CIA director. He gave Trump daily intelligence briefings as well as his thoughts on whatever political or national security issue might be prominent that week.

Its completely possible, experts say, that Pompeo could continue to hew closely to Trump in his new role. But interestingly, experts say its likelier that Pompeo falls in line with Mattis.

I think he will adapt carefully to his new position and wont be brash even though he has some strongly held views, Lincoln Bloomfield, who led the State Departments political-military affairs bureau from 2001 to 2005, told me. Theres no reason Mattis and Pompeo cant have a good relationship, he added. Id expect them to.

And if that happens, Mattis might find even more success reeling in Trump because he will have a strong, Trump-endorsed ally.

Mattis and Pompeo, however, havent worked together much in the administration, except on the Afghanistan strategy review that paved the way for the US to send thousands more troops to Central Asia. That means they will have to find a way to coexist. Mattis has already demonstrated his willingness to cooperate closely with a secretary of state.

But will Pompeo show the same eagerness to work with his Pentagon counterpart?

Pompeo has been auditioning for this job for a year, and now he has it, Wright, the Brookings scholar, told me. Will that change him in any way? Because now its about how he wants to be remembered, and if he believes Trumps preferences result in better policy.

Mattis will surely want to know that too  and soon.

Update 3/15/18: This article has been updated to reflect the exact exchange between myself and Dana White.