The president is tweeting again.

Hes mad at the negative (Fake) coverage of TV network news. And hes using Twitter to float a new idea for striking back  which, if it actually happened, would be very worrisome indeed.

At this point, when Trump tweets that something was just reported, it practically goes without saying that it was reported on Fox & Friends, the Fox News morning show that has all but supplanted the presidents daily intelligence briefing.

Matt Gertz of the progressive media watchdog Media Matters pegged the exact Fox & Friends segment Trump was referring to  presumably watching on tape delay on his super TiVo an hour and a half after it aired:

The Fox report, in turn, is based on a study by the Media Research Center, a right-wing media watchdog group. Foxs graphic isnt quite right: The most recent Media Research Center report on network coverage, from January 1 to April 30 of this year, shows that 90 percent of Trump coverage was negative, not 91 percent. Previous Media Research Center reports, issued last fall and this March, showed that 91 percent coverage was negative.

Its not clear how the Media Research Center determines whether coverage is positive or negative, and the consistency of their findings  with multiple studies showing the exact same 9 percent/91 percent split of positive versus negative coverage  might raise some questions as to the rigor of their methods.

But other analysts agree that network coverage of Trump has been more negative than positive. The Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics, and Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School found that over Trumps first 100 days in office, network coverage of Trump that expressed a position was more than 90 percent negative on CNN, CBS, and NBC  though that doesnt include a large share of coverage that was deemed neutral.

Its nice of Trump to admit, explicitly, what many skeptics have suspected all along: When he complains about fake news, he doesnt actually mean news that is untrue; he means news that is personally inconvenient to Donald Trump.

The Media Research Center didnt say 91 percent of Trump coverage was fake. Trump himself conveniently drew the connection.

And having conflated negative with Fake, he proceeded to float the idea of punishing the press for its perceived transgressions  in particular, revoking their credentials (presumably their White House credentials).

If this actually happened, it would be an unprecedented attack on the freedom of the press. Revoking White House credentials for major news outlets simply because the president doesnt like them wouldnt technically be censorship, but it would certainly put a thumb on the scale of White House coverage.

But its also worth noting that at this point, President Trump has done a lot of Twitter saber rattling about the press having too much freedom and hasnt spent a lot of energy acting on it.

Trumps White House has reduced access to the president in official Oval Office press gaggles, and his press secretaries call on explicitly pro-Trump and conservative outlets more than their predecessors (and nonpartisan outlets, by extension, less often). But when the White House actually tried to restrict some outlets from accessing a press briefing in February 2017, other outlets refused to attend in solidarity  and two of the outlets that did send reporters clarified after the fact that if theyd known some journalists would be barred, they wouldnt have gone.

The White House hasnt tried to pull that trick in the past several months. Sarah Huckabee Sanders complains about the press corps, but she talks to them.

Its reasonable to worry about reporters changing their behavior due to Trumps threats, and becoming more obedient. But if it hasnt happened after the past several gripes and threats, its not clear why it would start now.