Scott Pruitt is not like past administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency, just as Donald Trump is not like past presidents.

In both cases, its not that theyre conservatives. Conservatives have held those positions before. Its that they seem to be engaged in something different than their predecessors  different not just in degree, but in kind.

They are governing on behalf of their allies and supporters, against their perceived enemies, with virtually no claims to anything more universal. That kind of tribalism in politics is not new, of course, but with the Trump administration, the US conservative movement has more or less abandoned any pretense of anything loftier. Respect for mutual norms and procedural neutrality have gone well out the window.

The GOP has become, in the immortal words of Thomas Mann and Norman Ornstein, an insurgent outlier  ideologically extreme; contemptuous of the inherited social and economic regime; scornful of compromise; unpersuaded by conventional understanding of facts, evidence and science; and dismissive of the legitimacy of its political opposition.

Tribalism explains Pruitt: his policies, his paranoia, his ethical and political missteps, and his eventual ejection from the Trump administration, which is looking more and more imminent.

The story of how the US right radicalized, becoming more and more ideologically homogenous and extreme, has been told many times (heres my attempt), so I wont tell it again here. Suffice it to say, that radicalism has now fully arrived at the EPA.

Past Republican administrations were run by the GOP establishment, which felt obliged to pay homage to shared norms, even when appointing administrators devoted to deregulation. That meant respecting the rule-making progress, staffing the agency with credentialed professionals, deferring to the Senate on appointments, and other matters of professionalism. Among other things, they felt the need to justify their policies, to maintain the pretense that different conceptions of the public good were at issue.

On the surface, at the level of federal politics, the symbolism and formalities of governance still exerted some power over the GOP well into the 2000s (though the theft of the 2000 election was a notable signpost on the path to lawlessness).

But any notion of norms, standards, or restraints that transcend partisanship, that apply equally to all tribes, has all but vanished from consideration. That which is not explicitly forbidden by law is allowed. Mitch McConnell recently bragged that denying Obama Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland a confirmation vote  a grotesque violation of Senate norms and procedure, the latest in a string orchestrated by McConnell  is the the most consequential decision Ive ever made in my entire public career.)

It turns out, by the time Trump took power, what was left of the conservative establishment was ready, nay, eager to be freed from remaining norms. The GOP has rolled over for Trump like a puppy. His naked corruption and overt authoritarian tendencies do not occasion any oversight or even objection, because they are deployed on behalf of the tribe. When you are involved in zero-sum warfare, the ends justify any means.

And so it is at EPA.

Pruitt is a pure creature of this new hyper-conservative GOP. He came up in Oklahoma conservative politics, where alliance with fossil fuel industries and hostility toward federal regulators are taken for granted and the only serious political threat is from the right. Liberals and environmentalists mostly exist as grotesque caricatures on the conservative media that dominate the airwaves.

Pruitt has lived his life in a conservative bubble, and much like Vice President Mike Pence, his intense religious convictions, his naked political ambition, and his industry-friendly policy agenda are in perfect alignment, with nary a hint of cognitive dissonance. God called on him to deregulate the fossil fuel industry. The more power he gains, the higher he rises in politics, the more he can carry out Gods will.

Industry people and conservative people (theres no sign he sees any difference) are simply his people, his tribe. He still echoes some of the old conservative policy talking points that gesture at the public good  job-killing regulations, regulatory certainty, originalism, etc.  but it is desultory at best. Theres no sign hes trying to persuade anyone. Simulacra of persuasion are just something occasionally required to placate the media.

After all, theres no one to persuade. His tribe is already convinced and the enemy tribe  a class that in his mind includes the DC political establishment, career agency staff, and the mainstream media  is out to destroy him. Its a fight, not a salon.

A cosmopolitan-minded person might approach environmental policy and say, okay, we agree that we should serve the public interest, but our tribes just disagree how best to do it. Lets come to a compromise.

That kind of talk is gibberish to a tribalist, just one of the pious bits of nonsense people in the opposing tribe use to impress one another. The tribalist does not begin with a pluralist conception of the good and work backward to policy. The tribalist begins with the good of the tribe and works backward to policy (and to everything else, including truth).

For the tribalist, there are only opposing tribes and the battle between them. Pretense to the contrary, appeals to any sort of trans-partisan standards or restraints, are merely a ruse, a gambit in the endless war.

Pruitt is there to serve his tribe, i.e., resource industries.

Tribalism explains why, long before he was EPA administrator, Pruitt was tangled in ethics scandals, as Mother Jones reporter Rebecca Leber recounts in her excellent profile.

Pruitts past (and present) ethics scandals do not seem to reflect any particular personal avarice, so much as they reflect someone so accustomed to acting on behalf of industry that it fails to occur to him to try to hide it.

When he was Oklahoma Attorney General he was busted copying industry talking points directly into his communications with the federal government. Emails from that time, which have been dragged out of him by investigations and lawsuits, reveal a long pattern of working in close coordination with industry to attack EPA regulations. They also reveal a striking lack of self-awareness that anyone might object to or even make particular note of such a relationship.

More than anything, Pruitt just doesnt seem to see anything wrong with it. They worked with their tribe (environmentalists), why shouldnt he work with his (industry)?

Tribalism explains why Pruitt hired an enormous security team, built a $43,000 security phone booth, avoids flying coach, hires political cronies without Senate confirmation, exiles anyone who questions him, boxes out career staff, works to diminish the influence of scientists, meets almost exclusively with industry groups, and has issued agency talking points playing down the threat of climate change.

Its all for the same reason, captured in what he said to a Washington Times podcast about the scandals now surrounding him:

Pruitt views himself as operating within occupied enemy territory. Washington, DC and the federal bureaucracy are dominated by enemy tribe. The Dems in Congress pressing him for information are part of it. The media that is covering these scandals are part of it. The people who yell at him in big-city airports are part of it.

He is surrounded by enemies who will, in his words, resort to anything to get him. Thats why he needs so much security, avoids unstructured encounters the public, and sleeps in a lobbyists condo or at home in Tulsa. He has no interest in encountering the enemy.

It is Pruitts undisguised tribalism that seems to shock even previous GOP EPA administrators  the unwillingness or inability to even go through the motions of propriety, much less broad consultation and transparent policymaking.

Tribalism explains why, when he came under political heat, Pruitt fled to friendly right-wing media outlets to do interviews. (The strategy did not go well for him when he ran into an informed, probing interview on [checks notes] Fox News?)

It does not occur to him to explain himself to the mainstream media; they are the enemy. Instead, his immediate instinct  one that reflects his long-time immersion in, and relationship to, right-wing media  is to play the victim of a liberal witch hunt.

If he can frame it that way, the right-wing base will grow furious and the tribalists in the White House might come to see firing him as a concession to the enemy  or, even better, see keeping him on as a way to drag the libs.

It wont be hard to sell that narrative on the right. Conservative media have been slavishly supportive of Pruitt from the beginning, culminating in a series of fawning profiles in purportedly respectable outlets like the Weekly Standard and National Review. (The author of NRs lickspittle paean to Pruitts greatness? None other than Kevin D. Williamson.)

Right-wing media, think tanks, and industry groups are rallying on Pruitts behalf. They no longer care about establishment standards or the perception of procedural neutrality, any more than he does. If he is corrupt, he is corrupt on their behalf; he is of their tribe, advancing their agenda.

Being openly tribal has served Scott Pruitt well so far in his career, earning him the iron-clad support of industry, the far right, and Donald Trump alike.

Here, though, we come to the bitter irony that every servant of this tribe eventually encounters: the strongman who runs it is devoted only to himself.

Pruitts personal loyalty to Trump, his effectiveness in deregulating industry, his true-blue commitment to the conservative cause  none of it will matter in the end.

All that will matter is what Trump sees on his TV. Lately, hes been seeing a little too much of Pruitt. Seeing anyone other than himself on his TV eventually irritates him, so last week, after being supportive to Pruitts face, Trump sent Chief of Staff John Kelly to tell Pruitt to cut it out. Get off the TV, basically.

But the scandals just keep dripping.

We all serve at the pleasure of the president, White House Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley said to reporters on Thursday. You guys know that. And when hes not pleased, youll know it.

The coming weeks will make or break Pruitt. If nothing new comes out, if something else takes over the news cycle and he gets off the TV, Trump will probably keep him. All the business guys like him, he seems to be doing a good job, whatever.

But if the scandals keep building, if Pruitt stays on the TV, all his loyal and effective service to the tribe wont matter a whit to Trump, who may well have a dyspeptic moment watching Fox & Friends and fire him via tweet. Live by the strongman, die by the strongman. Or maybe the aides whove been urging Trump to fire Pruitt will win out.

Either way, Pruitt will have a long and comfortable career in conservative politics, where corruption in service to tribe is no vice at all.