During an appearance on The Laura Ingraham Show this week, Senator Rand Paul warned that Absolutely, there is a deep state and that it is actively working to try to bring Trump down.

The deep state is the intelligence agencies that do not have oversight, Paul said, adding Only eight people in Congress know what theyre doing, and traditionally, those eight people have been a rubber stamp to let the intelligence communities do whatever they want.

The Senator was referring to the majority and minority leaders of the House and Senate, in addition to the chairmen and ranking members of the two intelligence committees.

There is no skeptic among the eight people that are supposedly overseeing the intelligence community. Paul warned.

The interview is 21 mins in:

The Senator then warned that intelligence heads, with the rubber stamp of the gang of 8 have abused their positions.

John Brennan and James Clapper were doing whatever the hell they wanted, without any judicial warrants, Paul declared.

I think there were numerous people in the Obama administration who were using intelligence  one, to try to bring Trump down; but two, also, they were using it for political purposes, Paul stated, adding that this is very, very worrisome.

This is the real problem, Paul said, noting that founding father James Madison warned about such over reach.

Madison said that men are not angels. And all you gotta do is look at John Brennans tweet to know that hes not an angel. And listen to James Clapper lying to the Senate about whether they were spying on Americans. Paul said, referring to the following recent tweet from Brennan, aimed at the President:

Brennan is engaged in a battle with Trump, still attempting to bring down the President by suggesting on a daily basis that he is under the thumb of Vladimir Putin.

In a further appearance on Fox News, Rand Paul slammed Brennan, saying I think hell go down in history as someone who is very much a partisan and not in the tradition of law enforcement of trying to be even-keeled and non-partisan.

This is exactly why we need more control over the intelligence community, and I think they should never be searching an Americans records without a judges warrant, Paul urged.