The former FBI informant at the heart of the Russian Uranium scandal, William D. Campbell, has given an exclusive, on camera interview to The Hill  in which he reveals that he was interviewed in December by FBI agents from the Little Rock, Arkansas for five hours about the Clintons.

Of note  Campbells attorney is Victoria Toensing, a former Deputy Assistant Attorney General under Reagan who is now handling the Mueller investigation for President Trump along with her husband, former federal prosecutor Joe diGenova (also of note, newly minted National Security Advisor John Bolton was Reagans Assistant AG, presumably while Toensing was a Deputy Assistant AG in the criminal division).

After Campbell spent decades working for the CIA, he was turned over to the FBI for counterintelligence work due to relationships he had forged deep within the Russian uranium industry. While deep undercover, Campbell uncovered two related bribery schemes involving Russian nuclear officials, an American trucking company, and efforts to route money to the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) through an American lobbying firm in order to overcome regulatory hurdles, according to reports by The Hill and Circa.

Campbell collected over 5,000 documents and briefs over a six-year period beginning in 2009, some of which are said to detail efforts by Moscow to route money to (CGI) through lobbying firm APCO Worldwide  including video evidence of bribe money related to the Uranium One deal being stuffed into suitcases.

Officials with APCO  the lobbying firm accused of funneling the money to the Clinton Global Initiative, told The Hill that its support for CGI and its work for Russia were not connected in any way, and involved different divisions of the firm.

In January, the Little Rock FBI field office opened a new investigation into the Clintons and their various charitable foundations  focusing on pay-for-play schemes and tax code violations, according to law enforcement officials and a witness who wishes to remain anonymous.

The officials, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said the probe is examining whether the Clintons promised or performed any policy favors in return for largesse to their charitable efforts or whether donors made commitments of donations in hopes of securing government outcomes. The probe may also examine whether any tax-exempt assets were converted for personal or political use and whether the Foundation complied with applicable tax laws, the officials said. The Hill (1/4/2018)

Campbell told The Hill that the Arkansas agents specifically asked about donations to the Clinton charitable trusts:

Campbell said he was asked specifically about whether donations to the Clintons charitable efforts were used to influence U.S. nuclear policy during the Obama year, and that agents questioned him extensively about claims the Russians made to him that they had routed millions of dollars to an American lobbying firm in 2010 and 2011 with the expectation it would be used to help President Clintons charitable global initiative while major uranium decisions were pending before Hillary Clintons State Department. The Hill

They were looking into the Clintons, and the information that I provided to them about the Clintons and about what was said and confirmed by Russian leadership seemed to be very important to them, Campbell said, his appearance obscured to hide his identity.

Campbell gave closed-door testimony to three Congressional panels in February  which Congressional Democrats Adam Schiff and Elijah Cummings wrote, smearing Campbell as he suffered from cognitive issues due to chemotherapy.

The former CIA and FBI asset dismissed the Democrats attacks as partisan.

I am not a Republican. I am not a Democrat. Im not an independent. I am a damn American, he said. Id like to remind those Democratic staff members who wrote that interview summary that none of em have ever worked undercover as a confidential informant ... and put themselves in clear and present danger with Russian criminals who are breaking U.S. law.

Moreover, after details of Campbells undercover work for the FBI first emerged in an October 2017 report by The Hill  which did not divulge his name, Michael Isikoff of Yahoo News and Joel Schectman of Reuters published articles smearing Campbell, saying he was so unreliable that prosecutors dropped him as a witness in a case unrelated to his undercover work  while two senior officials within the Justice Department fed Congressional investigators the same thing during a December 15 briefing.

Both statements were lies, as the case was related to Campbells undercover work, and he was dropped as a witness after the Baltimore U.S. Attorneys office botched their case  which Campbells testimony would have weakened.

In response to the smears, Victoria Toensing fired off a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Tuesday demanding an investigation into Campbells character assassination  CCing DOJ Inspector General Michael Horowitz, along with several Congressional Investigators and others involved in the matter.