A protester seeking martyrdom walked in front of a Sacramento County Sheriffs Department SUV despite being ordered to move repeatedly, then told local media she felt like the victim of a a hit and run.

The incident happened in south Sacramento County on March 31st at 8:40 PM at the corner of 65th Expressway and Florin Road.

Second angle catches the very end:

Social justice warrior Wanda Cleveland was identified as the person who got hit.

He never even stopped, Cleveland claimed. It was a hit-and-run. If I did that Id be charged.

The Sacramento County Sheriffs Department issued a press release on Sunday saying their vehicles were attacked:

On March 31, 2018, Sacramento County Sheriffs Department personnel along with other law enforcement agencies responded to a planned protest in the area of 65th Expressway and Florin Road, within south Sacramento County. At approximately 8:40 P.M. Sheriffs Deputies driving two marked Sacramento County Sheriffs Department patrol vehicles traveling westbound on Florin Road from Stockton Boulevard became surrounded by a group of protesters. As protesters approached both of the marked vehicles, they began yelling while pounding and kicking the vehicles exterior. As one of the Sheriffs Deputies was driving, a collision occurred involving the Sheriffs patrol vehicle and a protester who was walking in the roadway. The collision occurred while the patrol vehicle was traveling at slow speeds. Sacramento Metro Fire Department personnel responded to the scene and transported the involved pedestrian to an area hospital for treatment. The pedestrian sustained minor injuries. During the incident, the Sheriffs Department vehicle sustained scratches, dents, and a shattered rear window. The damage to the vehicle was not a result of the collision involving the pedestrian but was caused by vandals in the crowd. The Sacramento County Sheriffs Department is conducting an internal review of the incident and the California Highway Patrol is investigating the collision.

Cleveland suffered only minor injuries from the slow moving bump and made it into the New York Times:

As I noted last month, protesters throwing themselves in front of peoples slowly moving cars in the quest for martyrdom and social media fame is becoming an epidemic.

The time will come soon where no one will be able to drive anywhere without protesters throwing themselves in front of our slow-moving cars.

Itll be just like those people who throw themselves at peoples cars in Russia and China to collect insurance money, but instead theyll be seeking to cash in on likes and retweets.