The anti-Trump media scrambled into damage control over the weekend, as it became clear that the Nunes memo did indeed outline everything President Trump asserted it would, a deep state plot to prevent his campaign succeeding, spearheaded by the FBI, Hillary Clinton and the Obama administration.

CNNs Brian Stelter attempted to wholly dismiss the memo, telling his dwindling viewership that it was created by Sean Hannity and Fox News.

Stelter referred to the memo as the rights version of Fire and Fury, which is strange because he and the rest of CNN praised and lauded Michael Wolffs book for days, before everyone realised it was total bullshit.

Lets be honest. This week, Sean Hannity won. And the rest of America lost, Stelter exclaimed.

Theyve distracted people about the truth involving Trumps Russia ties and theyve done everything possible to destroy faith in Robert Muellers probe. he continued.

Hannity gave a megaphone to the GOP congressman who said they had a smoking gun memo, proving a deep state conspiracy against Trump, Stelter complained, declaring that Hannity hyped it night after night after night in January, like a human countdown clock.

Now the current in vogue talking point is there is an important investigation going on, but its not the investigation into Russian interference and election, its the investigation into the FBI. Thats that alternative reality, Stelter concluded.

Of course, thats only an alternative reality if everything you say is ass backwards.

The actual reality is that there is no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion, there hasnt been for over a year, and it was the FBI that was under investigation for misconduct.

Stelter then brought on Baltimore Sun columnist David Zurawik who declared that he was shocked at the traction this Hannity narrative has gotten.

Zurawik then claimed that Hannity is feeding GOP representatives and the President with talking points.

Stelter then turned to his panel who claimed that the entire situation has been engineered to spark a constitutional crisis, to allow Trump unprecedented power to literally drain the swamp.

Its quite clear to see from all of this that CNN IS the alternative reality here.