A former aide to Barack Obama suggested Tuesday that President Trumps recent description of his predecessor as Cheatin Obama might be racist.

Appearing on CNN, of course, former White House communications director Jen Psaki claimed that the Presidents comments in a tweet might have racial undertones.

Host Jake Tapper said to Psaki The president brought up former President Obama, your former boss... He blamed him for basically creating no border. That followed a tweet in which he called  with zero context, I didnt know what he was talking about  he was talking about his poll numbers with Rasmussen, higher than Cheatin Obama.

I dont know what hes referring to, Tapper stated, prompting Psaki to respond Given Trumps history, you can guess that there might be racial undertones there.

He was the founder of the birther movement. Perhaps Im going to a very evil place with that, but history tells us thats a possibility, Psaki continued.

Do you think hes saying because hes black, he cheats? Tapper ludicrously asked.

I dont know. If he cheated, if he shouldnt have been president. Lots of possibilities, Psaki responded. Beyond that one outlier poll, it tells you nothing.

CNN has become a parody of itself with this kind of wacko analysis. However, it is a reflection of social and cultural hysteria in general. Everything is now deemed racist, sexist or some other form of -ist if it is said by someone whose opinion is disliked by the old media.

The Rasmussen poll referred to by Trump now has the President at a 51 percent approval rating, which is considerably higher than most other polls conducted by media outlets.

At the same point in his Presidency, Obama had a 47.5 approval, according to a RealClearPolitics poll from the 2010.

Psaki attempted to dismiss the poll as inaccurate.

What youre looking at is rolling averages. His rolling average was 38 percent. 11 points below any other president since 1945, Psaki said.

Next was President Clinton. It is sad that hes grabbing that poll. What it means, I dont really know. Thats my best guess, she added.