Donald Trump has once again lashed out at his attorney general, tweeting that he found a plan by Jeff Sessions to use his departments internal watchdog to review alleged surveillance abuses by intelligence teams DISGRACEFUL!

Sessions announced on Tuesday that the Department of Justices inspector general, its internal watchdog, would investigate allegations that the FBI and the Department of Justice abused Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (Fisa) procedures to spy on a Trump campaign adviser.

We believe the Department of Justice must adhere to the highest standards in the Fisa court, and, yes, it will be investigated ... The inspector general will take that as one of the matters hell deal with, Sessions told reporters during a press briefing.

Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse. Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isnt the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL! Trump wrote.

The DoJ inspector general is Michael Horowitz, appointed under the Obama administration in 2012. The DoJ typically expects to operate without interference from the White House.

Sessions said on Wednesday afternoon he would do his job with integrity and honor.

Members of the House intelligence committee have been warring over allegations by Republicans, crystallized in a memo controversially released by committee chairman Devin Nunes, that the DoJ and FBI submitted misleading information when applying for Fisa warrants to surveil former Trump campaign aide Carter Page, who has links to Russia.

Horowitzs team is already investigating the former FBI director James Comeys handling during the presidential election of Hillary Clintons use of a private email server while secretary of state.

Sessions, without mentioning the president, later issued a statement, saying: We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this Department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary. As long as I am the Attorney General, I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this Department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.