A Democratic senator has called for the internal watchdog at Ben Carsons housing and urban development department (Hud) to investigate allegations that a senior official was demoted for refusing to break a spending limit for redecoration.



Sherrod Brown, the senior Democrat on the Senate committee for banking, housing, and urban affairs, wants Helen Albert, Huds acting inspector general, to add the allegations to a request made earlier this month for an inquiry into Ben Carson, the Hud secretary.



Ranking member Brown believes this should be looked into as part of the comprehensive IG investigation he and other members of the banking committee have already requested, Ashley Lewis, a spokeswoman for the committees Democrats, said in an email.



The Guardian disclosed on Tuesday that Helen Foster, Huds chief administrative officer, filed an official complaint to a whistleblower agency alleging that she had lost her job as retaliation for incidents including her refusal to break a $5,000 spending limit for redecorating Carsons office in Washington.



Foster said she was told: $5,000 will not even buy a decent chair.



Following Fosters reassignment, the department spent $31,000 on a dining table and accompanying items, the New York Times found. The revelations come as Donald Trump has proposed billions of dollars in cuts to Huds budget, reducing programs for poor and homeless people.



A spokesman for Hud, Raffi Williams, claimed that the $5,000 limit did not apply because the table served a building-wide need. Williams had previously falsely denied the existence of the table purchase when asked about it by the Guardian.



Carsons department also signed a contract last year to spend $165,000 on lounge furniture for its Washington headquarters from the retailer OFS Brands of Huntingburg, Indiana, according to federal procurement records.



An inventory provided by the department said that the order comprised 38 lounge sofas and 76 lounge chairs. It said that 30 of the items were taken from OFSs Realm range, which the company describes as glamorous, with a beau mondes presence.



Earlier this month, Brown and other Democrats asked Albert to investigate a report that by involving his wife, son and daughter-in-law in government activity, Carson had risked breaking ethics rules intended to prevent conflicts of interest.



The inspector generals office declined to discuss the requests. Darryl Madden, a spokesman, said in an email: As a matter of policy, the office of the inspector general neither confirms nor denies any investigative actions that may or may not be underway.



Tricia Enright, a spokeswoman for the Democratic senator Robert Menendez, the senior Democrat on the committees housing subcommittee, said the departments spending was unlike what she experienced while working there for the Hud secretaries Henry Cisneros and Andrew Cuomo during the 1990s.

I dont recall either one of them demanding the office be redecorated, said Enright. The best you could do was ask for furniture changes from the inventory in storage.