President Trump mocked Nancy Pelosi during a speech Tuesday, saying that the Democratic House Minority Leader came out in favor of MS-13 after the media claimed Trumps description of the murderous gang members as animals was racist.

Just the other day, Nancy Pelosi came out in favor of MS-13. Thats the first time Ive heard that, the President said during his speech at the Susan B. Anthony List, a pro-life organization.

She wants them to be treated with respect, as do other Democrats. Thats not going to be happening. Were not going to release violent criminals into our country. the President added.

Referring to the Democratic party, Trump added They dont want walls, they dont want other people stopping.

We will be appealing to voters all across America who previously sent a Democrat to Washington only to discover they elected a proxy vote for Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, Trump added.

These are people that dont believe in borders, dont believe in fighting crime, dont believe in a strong military. the President said.

Last week, Pelosi defended the MS-13 gang, founded by Salvadoran immigrants,

These arent people, these are animals, Pelosi said, quoting the president, then adding You have to wonder, does he not believe in the spark of divinity  the dignity and worth of every person? These are not people, these are animals  the president of the United States.

Every day that you think that youve seen it all, along comes another manifestation of why their policies are so inhumane and why we have to continue the debate... Calling people animals is not a good thing, Pelosi added.

Responding to Trumps latest comments, Pelosi again conflated the battle against gang violence with other standard immigration policies, criticizing Trump for the DHSs policy to detain parents who come over the border illegally separately from children.

In the wake of the media purposefully taking Trumps animals comment out of context and suggesting he was referring to all immigrants, the White House issued a press release entitled, What You Need to Know About the Violent Animals of MS-13.

The document triggered the pro-immigration group The Southern Poverty Law Center, who called it unacceptable for such racist, dehumanizing language to appear on the White House website.

The internet was swift and brutal with its response: