President Donald Trump just released his proposed defense budget for 2019, and its not as massive as the administration might have you believe.

On the campaign trail, candidate Trump talked frequently about rebuilding the military and increasing defense spending to do so. Over his past year in office, hes advocated for giving more money to the military.

But Trumps defense budget request for $686 billion  if passed by Congress  is still only a 2 percent increase from last years, experts tell me.

Trumps defense budget is anticlimactic, said Mackenzie Eaglen, a defense expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. The modest increase wont allow the military to do the things Trump talked about on the campaign trail any time soon, she said, like rapidly grow the Army, build a 350-ship Navy, and increase the combat Air Force.

Fred Bartels, a defense budget expert at the conservative Heritage Foundation, told me that the 2 percent increase barely rises above inflation. That said, the request is a 13 percent increase from the 2017 defense proposal, and would add around 26,000 new troops.

And to be fair, Trump did request the largest defense base budget ever at $617 billion. The Pentagon uses that money to, among other things, keep the lights on, pay and train troops, and buy and maintain weapons. Trump also proposed $69 billion to fund Americas wars; at the start of the previous administration, Obama requested around $160 billion  but that was when the US had around 100,000 troops in Afghanistan.

Heres the overview of Trumps request, and the important takeaways.

Trump remains among the most Russia-friendly presidents in modern memory  but he still wants to push back against Moscow.

His defense budget request calls for an extra $1.7 billion for the European Deterrence Initiative, bringing the total to $6.5 billion. Thats a Pentagon program which allocates money for sending more US troops to Europe and training with European countries.

According to the budget request, Trump wants this increase to better counter Russian coercion and deter Russian aggression in the region.

The Kremlin may now have buyers remorse, since the US intelligence community revealed that Russian President Vladimir Putin aimed to help elect Trump.

Kingston Reif, an expert at the Arms Control Association, noted on Twitter that Trump requested more money for missile defense. The budget specifically asks for 20 more ground-based missile interceptors in Alaska. Thats potentially big news.

The US has a total of 44 interceptors stationed in Alaska and California they could use if North Korea shoots a missile in Americas direction. But the missile defense system that uses those interceptors has only passed 10 of 18 tests. The military also conducts those tests under highly controlled conditions.

Thats worth highlighting: Even in the best conditions, the system thats supposed to protect the US from a North Korean nuclear weapon has just over a 50 percent success rate. Thats why experts are generally pessimistic about US capability to stop a North Korean weapon headed our way.

Depending on the trajectory, we should not assume that we can, with any reliability, intercept intercontinental ballistic missile warhead targets, Vipin Narang, a nuclear expert at MIT, told me last November.

Its very likely that North Korea will notice Americas desire to add more interceptors  even if they are unreliable.

Trump promised a 355-ship Navy during the campaign, up from the about 277 it has now. Trump officially turned that promise into a policy last December  but this budget doesnt provide the money needed to do that, as Eaglen noted earlier.

In fact, Military.coms Hope Hedge Seck notes the Navy says the plan to get 335 ships  20 below Trumps promise  wont be achieved until the 2050s.

That means it could take around 30 years to meet Trumps goal  which will be long after he leaves the Oval Office.

The new budget request should still make the military happy, other experts said in interviews.

No longer can the military complain about not having enough money, Gordon Adams, former President Bill Clintons top White House budget official for national security, said in an interview. Its living proof that if you wail loud enough and long enough, get a Republican Congress and White House, and scare them all with tales of Russian and Chinese threats, you will get your wish  more money.

Last week, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis told the House Armed Services Committee that the military needed more money, or America put itself at risk. Days later, lawmakers struck a deal to lift previously imposed defense-spending caps  paving the way for Trumps big ask.

That led Mattis to tell reporters on Sunday that the new budget is what we need to bring us back to a position of primacy.

The Pentagons top spokesperson, Dana White, tweeted that the budget ensures we are ready for the fight of the future. In other words, it refocuses the USs attention on remaining as strong as possible to fend off threats from possible competitors like China and Russia.

In an interview, Mark Cancian, a defense expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, summed it up for me simply: Its a big bump.

It just may not be as big a bump as Trump made it out to be.