On Monday, President Donald Trump unveiled the second budget proposal of his presidency, encompassing proposals affecting defense and non-defense funding for government agencies, tax changes, and funding for social insurance and assistance programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and food stamps.

The budget broadly resembles the budget Trump released last year, and both closely follow budget plans put forward by House Speaker Paul Ryan when he was the House Budget Committee chair. Ryans previous budget proposals featured trillions in cuts to programs for the poor. While Trump largely leaves the non-disability portions of Social Security unscathed, and boosts funding for border security, veterans, and defense, he cuts just about everything else  including Medicare, which was largely spared in the fiscal year 2018 budget.

The new budget also calls for passing an Obamacare replacement bill that deeply cuts Medicaid to far below its pre-Obamacare levels, making the tax bill passed in 2017 permanent, and slashing food stamps dramatically.

As with last years, this budget assumes an extremely unrealistic economic growth rate  3 percent, above the currently projected 1.9 percent. This assumption results in $3.1 trillion lower deficits than would otherwise result  which, since the budget claims $3.1 trillion in net deficit reduction through spending cuts, suggests the budget might not close the deficit at all if you use more realistic assumptions.

Its an ambitious document that stands in marked contrast to the actual actions of the administration and its allies in Congress, who just last week agreed to a massive increase in non-defense discretionary spending, which this budget now proposes to cut by more than 40 percent.

According to the centrist, pro-balanced budget group the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (which, regardless of its political leanings, is a reliable source of rigorous budget analysis), the presidents budget has a total of $3.1 trillion in budget savings relative to current law. It includes $1.75 trillion in new spending and tax cuts, $3.7 trillion in deficit reduction thats overwhelmingly the result of spending cuts, $800 billion in reduced spending on wars and disaster recovery, and $300 billion in savings due to lower interest payments on less debt.

In addition to the raw number figures, there are a number of new proposals for how to run these programs. The budget endorses the Graham-Cassidy plan for repealing and replacing Obamacare, which entails massive cuts in Medicaid spending and devolving much of the federal health care budget to the states. It attempts to significantly reduce Medicare spending by adding new restrictions on when doctors can offer self-referrals, expanding the use of Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs), and other changes.

On food stamps, the budget would reduce the amount that recipients get in vouchers to spend on food of their choice and introduce USDA foods packages, which would include items such as shelf-stable milk, ready to eat cereals, pasta, peanut butter, beans and canned fruit, vegetables, and meat, poultry, or fish in order to improve the nutritional value of the benefit provided and reduce the potential for ... fraud.

The budget would eliminate loan forgiveness for students who go into public service, do away with subsidized Stafford loans, and establish a new, unified income-based repayment plan for student loans. Borrowers would pay 12.5 percent of their discretionary income every month and have their balance forgiven after 15 years (for undergraduate debt) or 30 years (for graduate school debt). This is projected to save $203 billion over 10 years.

No  not likely.

The presidents budget is not law, and it is not actually implemented government policy. It is an opening volley in a months-long decision-making process established by the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, in which the House and Senate set spending levels for the various government agencies.

To pass, Trumps budget needs to get at least 60 votes in the Senate, meaning at least nine Democrats would have to vote for the budget cuts or at least refuse to filibuster. Thats not particularly likely to happen.

The main purpose of the budget request is to formally lay out the administrations stance on fiscal policy. It details specific policy changes the administration wants, how much those changes will affect spending and tax revenue over the next 10 years, and how individual agencies will be affected along the way.

For example, President Obamas final budget called for $312 billion in new infrastructure spending, $150 billion for universal pre-K and child care, and $60 billion to expand access to community colleges, paid for (and then some) by cuts in prescription drug spending, a cap on the value of tax deductions, new taxes on investment income, and more. The budget gave relatively precise estimates for how much each of these proposals was expected to cost or raise, respectively, and estimates of how this would affect the overall trajectory of the deficit (down) and spending and revenue levels (both up).

But youll notice that Obama did not actually get $312 billion in infrastructure spending, or a cap on tax deduction, or a tax increase on capital gains. Thats because the budget request is only the first step in the process, and all the most consequential decisions are made by Congress.

The second step in the process is for the Senate and House budget committees to propose, pass, and reconcile resolutions laying out detailed spending and revenue plans for the coming fiscal year. These resolutions often incorporate ideas from the presidents budget, particularly when the presidents party controls one or both houses of Congress  but they dont need to.

When Paul Ryan was chair of the House Budget Committee, his plans incorporated little if anything from Obamas budgets. If House Budget Chair Steve Womack (R-AR) and Senate Budget Chair Mike Enzi (R-WY) have significant disagreements with Trumps budget priorities, or enough members of their committees do, then the resolutions they each pass through committee could differ sharply from Trumps plan.

Once Womacks and Enzis committees have passed resolutions, the full House and Senate have to pass them as well, and then the two bodies have to reconcile whatever differences exist between them. Then, finally, a reconciled joint House-Senate budget resolution can be passed by both houses. Notably, budget resolutions cant be filibustered, and because theyre concurrent resolutions rather than laws, they dont require the presidents signature either.

But because theyre not laws, budget resolutions do not enact new taxes or spending programs.

Not immediately; budget resolutions cant enact that kind of change on their own. But they can enable it.

So far, Trumps Congress has passed two budget resolutions: a FY2017 resolution meant to enable the passage of Obamacare replacement, and a FY2018 resolution that enabled the passage of last years tax bill.

They still need to pass a 2019 resolution, which can include reconciliation instructions that could enable the passage of some of the mandatory spending reforms in this budget, particularly the health care cuts and the cuts to safety net programs like food stamps.

Its definitely possible that Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell will decide to include reconciliation instructions that enable such cuts. But the Senates Republican majority is smaller than it was last summer, when it became clear that the massive health care cuts in the various Obamacare repeal-and-replace plans could not make it out of the Senate. There was just too much moderate Republican opposition, and this time around only two Republicans have to defect to kill a plan.

Still, if Republicans choose to, they can try to push through the mandatory cuts. The discretionary cuts, to agencies like the EPA, are a harder goal to achieve, since they cannot be included in a reconciliation bill. Thus, any bill that cuts their funding can be filibustered by Senate Democrats.

Massive. As with last years budget, this years includes some of the largest cuts to social programs and the safety net to be proposed by a president in decades.

The biggest proposed cuts, totaling nearly $2 trillion over 10 years, are to the non-defense discretionary budget. Those are also the least likely to take effect. Just last week, Republicans in Congress embraced significantly higher domestic spending levels, and in any case, discretionary cuts are filibusterable in the Senate. They cant be achieved through budget reconciliation.

But the health care cuts can be achieved, and this time around, Trump has chosen not to spare Medicare, which his previous budget didnt cut. He still wants to repeal and replace Obamacare, and in the process to cut Medicaid by either capping its per capita spending levels or block-granting it to the states. Either would dramatically reduce the programs effectiveness. On Medicare, the administrations focus is on trying to cut costs without reducing access to care by improving incentives to avoid wasteful treatments and changing how the program deals with providers.

The budget includes a bevy of cuts to non-health safety programs as well, most notably food stamps (which is cut by a quarter) and Section 8 Housing (which is cut by 20 percent). Disability programs also come in for cuts, and the budget includes a broad call for measures to improve program integrity by cracking down on faulty payments and making eligibility criteria stricter. The budget envisions such provisions raising $151 billion over the years. The budget also credits welfare reform measures (including the food stamps and Section 8 cuts) with $263 billion in savings over 10 years.

These are smaller net figures than the health care or discretionary cuts, but in percentage terms they are devastating to individual programs, some of which, like Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), are eliminated entirely.

Oh, right, those.

In the budget, Trump assumes that real GDP growth will reach 3 percent this year and then stay between 2.8 percent and 3 percent for the indefinite future. For context, in 2016 actual growth was 1.5 percent, and it was 2.2 percent in 2017.

Most economists dont view 3 percent growth as realistic. Most private sector forecasters foresee growth closer to 2.15 percent, the Congressional Budget Office projects numbers between 1.4 and 1.9 percent, and the Federal Reserve expects growth between 1.8 and 2 percent in the long run.

In a supplemental document, the White Houses budget staff estimated what the budget would look like with 1 percent lower growth every year from 2018 to 2028. This is a considerably more likely assumption. The analysis concludes that with these different projections, the US will raise $2.9 trillion less in revenue and spend $216.6 billion more. In total, the deficit over those 10 years will be $3.14 trillion greater, and $646.9 billion greater in 2028 alone.

Recall, from the beginning of this article, that budget analysts had concluded the budget includes $3.1 trillion in claimed deficit reduction. More realistic economic assumptions are enough to wipe away those deficit reductions entirely.