The much-anticipated Senate debate on immigration is set to begin Monday evening, and its still a mystery how it will go down.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will kick off what is expected to be a week of Senate floor debate to address anything immigration on Monday  delivering on a promise he made to Democrats in order to reopen the government after a three-day shutdown in January.

Some are hopeful it will result in a legislative solution for the roughly 690,000 undocumented immigrants who will lose protections under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which the Trump administration has promised to sunset by March 5. But realistically, the debate  like immigration negotiations up to this point  will be all over the map. The coming debate could address everything from the fate of a proposed border wall to an overhaul of the nations legal immigration system.

Unlike most debates on the Senate floor, theres no starting immigration bill for lawmakers to amend in either direction. The idea is to start with nothing and piece together a solution from scratch, the result of months of failed negotiations that have been stuck between the moderate-but-passable proposals that the White House wont support and conservative Trump-endorsed proposals that wont see Democratic support.

That means there are still a lot of unknowns: Which proposals will get a vote? Will Democrats get stuck with any conservative poison pills?

Some of the uncertainty is by design. McConnell promised a fair debate on the Senate floor: Theres no secret plan here to try to push this in any direction, he told reporters. But the Republican Senate leader is not known for going into major policy debates without a strategy. The debate will likely shape up to be a delicate dance between Republicans and Democrats  one that could result in bipartisan legislation, or in nothing.

One little hiccup along the way and the whole thing could fall apart, James Wallner, a political scientist with the conservative think tank R Street, who used to be the executive director of the Senates steering committee, said.

McConnell says he doesnt have a secret plan. He has kept his cards so close to the chest that even GOP senators have attested to being in the dark on the leaders position and strategy.

The Senate is going to work its will, and I hope that we will end up passing something, McConnell said, saying he couldnt go into specifics.

So to get an idea of what this weeks immigration floor debate will look like, were left to parse McConnells promise to Democrats very carefully. What we know:

Since McConnells promise, Democratic and Republican lawmakers have been banking on the prospect of regular order in the Senate, where lawmakers can engage in free and fair debate.

The majority leader spoke about how the Senate used to work, something I have rarely seen, where you start with a bipartisan proposal and try to build from there, Sen. Chris Coons (D-DE) told Vox last week. Coons has proposed a skinny immigration bill with Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) that would grant a path to citizenship for DREAMers and add some border security.

In the past, this kind of debating, which Wallner says bears similarities to how Harry Reid ran the Senate in the early 2000s, often protected a leadership-driven agreement put on the table. At some point, its possible McConnell will propose a substitute amendment, which would replace the shell bill. This would be subject to further amendments, but as Wallner points out, that process is often highly moderated and maintains McConnells position as the gatekeeper, not to mention that enforcing a 60-vote threshold will make it difficult for most amendments to become part of the final proposal.

Liberals and conservatives get shortchanged, Wallner said, as they are the most out of step with leadership.

But for now, we dont know if there is an agreement between party leadership, if McConnell plans on bringing up a more partisan proposal, or anything at all.

After months of negotiations, Congress has no shortage of immigration proposals. As Voxs Dara Lind and I explained, the problem isnt a lack of ideas; its a lack of the right kind of support:

Theres a White House proposal that calls for a path to citizenship for 1.8 million undocumented immigrants who came to the country as children, plus $25 billion to fund a southern border wall, while substantially curtailing family immigration and eliminating the diversity visa lottery program in such a way that would gut the legal immigration system. Its gained the support of conservatives like Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR) and has been panned by Democrats and moderate Republicans.

Republican Sens. Chuck Grassley (IA), Thom Tillis (NC), David Perdue (GA), James Lankford (OK), Cotton (AR), Joni Ernst (IA) and Majority Whip John Cornyn (TX) have released a legislative proposal that mirrors the White Houses outline. It has gained McConnells support, but its not clear whether the Majority Leader will bring up the proposal as a substitute amendment.

Also in the Senate, a bipartisan agreement between Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) would offer legal status, and eventual citizenship, to young unauthorized immigrants, give about a years worth of funding for the border wall, and eliminate the diversity visa lottery. But it was panned by the White House and conservatives for being too liberal. There are a handful of other bipartisan proposals that follow a similar framework in both the Senate and the House, and even more working groups that have yet to come out with proposals, including Sen. Susan Collinss (R-ME) Common Sense Caucus, which developed during Januarys three-day government shutdown.

Most recently, a proposal from McCain and Coons would grant eventual citizenship to undocumented immigrants who came to the US as children and have been in the country since 2013, and some border security measures  but not the border wall. The senators put forward the idea as a proposal that could serve as the foundation for the floor debate on immigration this week.

A number of these proposals are expected to see a vote on the Senate floor this week. Which one can meet the 60-vote threshold, however, remains to be seen.

There are a lot of unknowns going into this weeks debate.

1) What will McConnell bring up? No one seems to know.

The Republican leader is not one for leaving things to chance. He still maintains a lot of control and power going into this floor debate, but not even his closest deputies seem to have a clear idea of his strategy.

Hes trying to be an honest broker in this and just make sure that he treats people fairly. Im sure he has his preferences. Ive never heard him express them, exactly, Sen. John Thune (R-SD), who is the third-ranking Senate Republican, told Politico.

McConnell has since expressed support for the Grassley-Cornyn proposal, but has yet to indicate whether it will be brought up to the Senate floor as a substitute amendment  or when.

This legislation is a fair compromise that addresses the stated priorities of all sides, McConnell said. Its a partisan bill, that doesnt have the support of Democrats.

At the end of the day, McConnells strategy is to pursue the Republican agenda, Sarah Binder, a political scientist with George Washington University who specializes in congressional procedure, said. But the Republican Party is so fractured on immigration that its difficult to parse how the leader sees this playing out.

This isnt a left-right dimension, Binder said. You have a divided Republican Party which disagrees on how to address DACA, border security, the visa lottery  that complicates getting to 60.

2) How much will Democrats concede? As Voxs Dara Lind explained, top Senate Democrats have increasingly adopted their positions on immigration from the activist community, pushing their platform further to the left.

Now they are both in a position of policy leverage, in that their votes are needed to pass any immigration proposal, and they are operating under Republican control  one that has moved far to the right on immigration under Trump.

Weve seen areas of this policy debate where Democrats have been willing to make concessions; once adamantly opposed to approving any funding for Trumps southern border wall, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer put the border wall on the table in January, in an attempt to strike a deal with Trump before the government shutdown. Democrats have since walked back from the offer, but it seems like an area Democrats have identified for compromise.

Whether they are willing to accept more contentious proposals around legal immigration remains one of the biggest questions of this weeks negotiations.

3) What will Trump accept? McConnells promise to hold a floor debate came with a key concession: He said the Senate would stop focusing on Trumps constantly fluctuating opinion on immigration and work its own will.

But eventually, Trumps position will matter. Not only are Republican senators political under pressure to keep in line with the president, but House Speaker Paul Ryan has said he will not bring up a vote on immigration without Trumps blessing.

Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle say theyre confident theyll come up with something. But theres not much from the past months of negotiations to indicate thats true, and they will be facing some serious political headwinds.

If you need 60 votes, you are creating the possibility for a more broadly bipartisan policy, Binder said. But in a more partisan world ... the outcome could just be gridlock.