Donald Trumps embrace of gun control measures long opposed by the National Rifle Association and at odds with party orthodoxy has at least one Republican senator hopeful that Congress can break decades of gridlock on the issue and pass consequential reform.

Senator Pat Toomey, a Republican of Pennsylvania and the author of a bill to expand background checks, said the presidents support of a stronger background check measure could help convert Republicans who helped to twice block its passage.

During a televised meeting with lawmakers on Wednesday, Trump repeatedly endorsed legislation first introduced by Toomey and Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat, after the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting in 2012, that would expand background checks to weapons purchased at gun shows and online. 



If the president embraces something like Manchin-Toomey, a bill that had broad bipartisan support but couldnt quite get to 60 votes, the president could really make the difference, Toomey said, appealing to Trump from the presidents favorite morning show, Fox & Friends on Fox News.

Toomey admitted the bill still did not have enough support to pass the Senate, but said that could change with a serious lobbying effort by the president, who maintains strong support from the conservative voters most likely to oppose such legislation.

Democrats saw a flicker of hope in the presidents comments, noting that Trump has yet to backtrack on the views he expressed during the meeting with lawmakers the day before.

One public meeting will not close background check loopholes, said Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate. One hour of television wont get assault weapons off our streets. The NRA has had the Republican party in a headlock for decades. Only the president  this president  will have the power to overcome their strength.

Schumer said the present moment offers the best chance weve had in decades for Congress to pass consequential gun control legislation and called on Trump to help move Republicans in that direction.

He unveiled a three-point plan that he said the majority of his caucus supported. The proposal called for legislation similar to the Toomey-Manchin bill that would require background checks on firearm purchases at gun shows and over the internet.

Additionally, Democrats want to expand the ability of family members and law enforcement to petition a court to remove firearms from individuals who are deemed a threat to themselves or the public. Lastly, Senate Democrats want a full debate on whether to restore a ban on semi-automatic rifles.

Also on Thursday, a bipartisan group of senators introduced legislation to ban bump stocks, an attachment that allows a semi-automatic rifle to mimic the rapid-fire speed of an automatic gun. Trump has said he plans to ban the devices by executive order. 



However, despite immense public pressure, led by student survivors of the Parkland shooting in Florida, lawmakers on Capitol Hill remain far from a consensus.

On Thursday, a modest, bipartisan plan, sponsored by Senator John Cornyn, the majority whip, that aims to improve the quality of the federal background system earned its 50th co-sponsor. But Democrats who support the bill also say it is woefully inadequate to address the spate of deadly mass shootings.

Trump suggested the bill, called Fix Nics, was too incremental. He asked Cornyn to work with other members of the Senate to turn it into a broader background bill  and requested he find a better name for it.

Just before 4am on Thursday morning, Trump said on Twitter that Background Checks a big part of conversation.

He also said that many ideas, some good & some not so good, came out of Wednesdays White House meeting on gun control and school safety.

Wednesdays meeting with the president, like several past policy meetings, left Republicans stunned and confused after he urged lawmakers to resurrect legislation that breaks with decades of party orthodoxy.

Trump called for a terrific bill that would expand background checks on gun purchases while also endorsing measures that would bolster security on school campuses, restrict young people from purchasing certain weapons, and remove guns from the hands of the mentally ill without a court order. The latter enraged conservatives, including at Breitbart, the Trump-friendly website, which denounced the president as a gun grabber.

The president also repeatedly accused Republicans of being petrified of the NRA, unlike himself, who he said was unafraid to stand up to the powerful gun lobby.

During one exchange, he singled out Toomey, saying he was afraid of the NRA because the background bill does not include legislation to raise the minimum age to purchase semi-automatic rifles from 18 to 21.

Toomey told Fox & Friends that he had demonstrated his willingness to buck the NRA in 2012, when he introduced the Manchin-Toomey bill, which the gun lobby strongly opposed. Still, the senator said he has reservations about raising the minimum age because most young people who buy such weapons are target shooters and hunters who are not a threat to anyone.

And leaving the White House, few Republicans appeared swayed by the president.



They call politics the art of the possible for a reason. A lot of things that sound like interesting ideas, we just simply cant get the votes for them, said Cornyn.