Former FBI Director James Comeys moment in the spotlight has finally arrived.

Since being fired last year by President Trump, Comey has been hard at work on a memoir  Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership  which is set to be released on Tuesday (and for which he reportedly received a $2 million advance).

And true to form, the former FBI director and admitted leaker has supplied copies of the transcript to the Washington Post, New York Timesand Associated Press so they could published its most salacious claims at a time when Special Counsel Robert Muellers investigation appears to be entering its most active stage yet. Were sure the timing is just a coincidence.

In the memoir, Comey describes Trump as untethered to the truth and compares him to a mafia don whose leadership is ego driven and about personal loyalty, and that he created a cocoon of alternative reality that he was busy wrapping around all of us, per the Associated Press.

In one of the books more amusing claims, Comey says Trump approached him about investigating the Steele dossiers infamous pee tape claim. Trump said the story was making him sick because he worried that there might be a slight chance that his wife, Melania Trump, might believe it. Trump said there was no way he wouldve done that, and, furthermore, that he didnt stay in the Moscow hotel where it allegedly took place overnight  but rather only stopped by briefly to change clothes.

In one particularly interesting passage, Comey describes receiving a phone call from John Kelly  then head of the Department of Homeland Security  after the FBI director was unceremoniously fired by the president. According to Comey, Kelly said the firing made him sick and that he was thinking about quitting in protest. Comey says he urged Kelly to stay, arguing that the president needs principled people around him.

Moving on, after describing the presidents moblike behavior...

...Comey moves on to the centerpiece of his interactions with the president: his account of a dinner with the president where Trump purportedly asked him to pledge his loyalty.

After one week as president, Trump invited Comey to dinner. Comey describes the scene on Jan. 27: The table in the Green Room was set for two. The president marveled at the fancy handwriting on the four-course menu placards and seemed unaware of the term calligrapher. White House stewards served salad, shrimp scampi, chicken Parmesan with pasta, and vanilla ice cream. Comey writes that he believed Trump was trying to establish a patronage relationship, and that he said: I need loyalty. I expect loyalty. I was determined not to give the president any hint of assent to this demand, so I gave silence instead, Comey writes. I stared at the soft white pouches under his expressionless blue eyes. I remember thinking in that moment that the president doesnt understand the FBIs role in American life.

Comey also describes the February 2017 meeting where Trump asked him to let Flynn go...

In a rare defense of Trump, Comey says that he made a point to check the size of Trumps hands at the time of their first meeting  and he noted that they seemed smaller than mine, but did not seem unusually so.

As anybody who hasnt been living under a rock for the past two years would expect, Comey devotes a sizable chunk of his memoir to defending his handling of the Hillary Clinton probe. Explaining his decision to reopen the Clinton email probe a week and a half before the vote, Comey admits that he expected Clinton to win, and that he feared that  if he didnt disclose the reopening of the probe  that it would make Clinton an illegitimate president.

But would he have made a different decision if Trump had been leading in the polls? Even Comey concedes that he doesnt know.

The book also serves as a platform for Mr. Comey to once again defend his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation and the decisions that for a time made him one of the most despised figures among political liberals and other supporters of Mrs. Clinton. However, Mr. Comey acknowledges that he thought Mrs. Clinton would win the presidency and said it is entirely possible that he decided to reveal that the email investigation had started up again 11 days before the election because he was primarily concerned that if he concealed the renewed investigation, it would make her an illegitimate president. Would he have made a different decision if Mr. Trump had been ahead in the polls? I dont know, Mr. Comey concedes.

During the section of the book dealing with the bungled Clinton probe, Comey conveniently blames most of the FBIs shady behavior (a phenomenon that has been well documented since Comey left the bureau) during the Clinton probe on former Attorney General Loretta Lynch. In fact, Comey stops just short of accusing her of outright bias and criminality, per the Washington Post.

Comey is critical of then-Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch, saying she had a tortured half-out, half-in approach to the Clinton investigation and that he considered calling for the appointment of a special prosecutor. One day shortly before the election, Lynch and Comey met privately. Comey writes that the attorney general wrapped her arms around him and implied that she thought he had done the right thing. But as their meeting ended, Comey writes, She said, with just the slightest hint of a smile, Try to look beat up. She had told somebody she was going to chew me out for what I had done.

And in the Times...

Comey  a professed life-long Republican  doesnt reserve his attacks solely for Trump. He also writes unsparingly about the administration of George W Bush.

Comey devotes a large chunk of the book to waxing about the greatness of Americas past  and worrying about the impact that the Trump administration will have on its future.

The book is already climbing up the best-sellers list ahead of its official release on Tuesday. At this rate, its set to be the most popular book published so far during the Trump era  second only to Michael Wolffs Fire and Fury, which has been accused of including multiple factual inaccuracies.

Comey is also expected to sit for an interview with ABC Sunday night.

Now, we wait to see how much of Comeys account appears in Robert Muellers investigation.