Marchers descended on Washington DC from around the US to call for gun reform in the March for Our Lives demonstrations. Lois Beckett spoke to some of those taking part.

We havent forgotten what happened in Sandy Hook and Columbine and Virginia Tech. Those things happened a long time ago, and people tried putting them in the back of their minds, but were showing here that we havent forgotten about any of that, said Ruqaiyah.

The shooting that first affected her directly was Sandy Hook, she said. I was very young, she said. I was nervous, I didnt really understand what it was about. I remember being afraid.

For Amanah, it was when it happened here. There was a school shooting nearby in Marylandlast week.

The father and daughter came to Washington to show their support for the Parkland students, and to advocate for a ban on assault weapons.



I think the second amendment needs to be repealed and amended. I dont think the right to own a gun should be unlimited, Steve Craig said.

Maddie Craig said she thought social media had changed the gun control debate, allowing students to speak directly to each other and share their experiences. For Columbine, there wasnt that social media presence. Now, she said, you can hear every students opinion. Theres a lot more awareness of whats going on across America.

Gambinos two sons, 15 and eight, were too afraid to come to the rally, worried that the large crowds would attract gun crazies and that there might be another act of violence.

You dont have to go. Ill go for you, she told them.

Gambino said this was her first protest for gun control. I think I was waiting for someone else to do something, she said.

Seeing that the kids in the last attack had to rally themselves, I felt very guilty. We the parents should have already been in the streets and we shouldnt have left until we made the change for them.

Meelock and Wedin came to the March for Our Lives just four days after a shooting at their high school in southern Maryland, which left one of their classmates killed, one injured, and a third, the shooter, dead after a confrontation with a school police officer.

The two teenagers had hidden in their classrooms during the shooting, listening to the principal call over the loudspeaker to exit the halls.

It was a little bit scary at first when the police officers came into our classrooms. They had guns. It was really chaos. They kicked down the door. It was really loud. A lot of us hadnt seen guns before, Meelock said.

I was close to it, said Wedin. We went on lockdown, we were all waiting to know if we were going to be OK. If there was a threat to us. We were all planning what we were going to do if we had to get out the window.

The shooter had posted on social media and in private messages before the shooting that he was depressed and had guns, they said.

Trottier had traveled as part of a group from from the Turtle Mountain Indian reservation in North Dakota near the Canadian border. Her schools student council had organized the trip to show their support for Parkland students, and in reaction to the series of threats their school and town had faced in recent weeks.

It was the teenagers first march. Trottier and the other young women wore ceremonial ribbon skirts to show the importance of the march. Theyre very sacred, she said.

We want our voices to be heard, she said. As minorities we understand feeling speechless or not being heard.