What President Donald Trump gave the crowd at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) Friday morning wasnt just rhetorical red meat. It was rhetorical severed limbs, dripping with blood.

Trumps CPAC speech was a fantasia on his favorite theme: Immigrants are dangerous and they want to kill you.

MS-13 are hiding out in sanctuary cities and theyre coming for you and want to kill you. These are animals. They cut people. They cut them. They cut them up in little pieces, and they want them to suffer. And we take them into our country.

Countries are sending bad people to the US vis the diversity visa lottery and they want to kill you. We pick out people. Then they turn out to be horrendous. And we dont understand why. Theyre not giving us their best people, folks [...] I dont want people who drive a car at 100 miles an hour down the West Side Highway, and kill eight innocent victims and destroy the lives of 14 more. 

Border Patrol and ICE agents have to be absolutely ruthless because theyre the only line of defense against people who want to kill you. All they understand is toughness, Trump said of MS-13, and we have the toughest guys youve ever seen. We got tough. They dont respect anything else.

And Democrats are siding against those agents, and against the American people, tacitly supporting people who want to kill you. Theyre against safety, Trump said. You meet with Democrats and theyre always fighting for the criminal. Theyre not fighting for law-abiding citizens.

He even did The Snake  the recitation of a song that Trump repurposed as an anti-immigration parable during his campaign, in which a snake asks to be taken into a womans home and repays her for her charity by killing her. He all but made the crowd beg for it, as if it was an encore at a rock concert:

After reminding the crowd multiple times to think of it in terms of immigration  in case the subtext might have gotten missed  he recited it to applause:

I saved you, cried the woman. And youve bitten me, heavens why? 

You know your bite is poisonous and now Im going to die. 

Oh, shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. 

You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in. [ Applause ] And thats what were doing with our country, folks. Were letting people in. And it is going to be a lot of trouble. It is only getting worse.

Over the past year, some in the media have realized, belatedly, that the Trump administration is hawkish on both legal and unauthorized immigration. But that was always their fault. The Snake was never a parable about illegal immigration. It was always about immigration, full stop.

Most politicians biggest applause lines are statements about the America they want to see. Donald Trumps biggest applause line is about how America is letting in people who will kill you. Its a fear that Trump uses to justify his legislative agenda  building a wall on the US-Mexico border; tightening asylum law to make it much harder for unaccompanied children and families to enter the US; and drastically cutting legal immigration, particularly family-based immigration  but it is not, fundamentally, about the policy. It is about the feelings that being at a Trump rally evokes: the effervescence of being in a room where everyone passionately agrees with you, and the loyalty and thankfulness engendered by being among leaders who say the world is a terrible place from which they will protect you.

Donald Trump was reciting The Snake long before he started talking about chain migration or even MS-13. And he knows that The Snake, not the policy, is what his audience wants.

The lines between salesmanship, hucksterism, and demagoguery have always been very blurry with Trump. And the intersection of them is the place hes always been most comfortable  as a candidate, and as a president. Time and again, when Trump is in front of friendly audiences  whether its a group of police officers on Long Island or a group of conservative activists at CPAC  he gives speeches about how immigrants are subhuman and violent, and that America needs sufficiently ruthless and violent law enforcement officers to fight against them effectively.

Its an incredibly dangerous thing to have people going around on the street believing. But that doesnt appear to bother the president much. After all, he gets the applause.