An American city is under attack, and the president of the United States isnt saying anything about it.

Four bombs have exploded in residential neighborhoods in Austin since March 2, in what appears to be an increasingly sophisticated bombing campaign. A fifth bomb exploded at a FedEx facility outside San Antonio Monday night; the bomb was in a package addressed to Austin.

According to Austins police chief, more than 500 federal agents are working on the case as police try frantically to track down any leads to the bomber. The citys mayor tweeted reassurances to residents Monday night that a small law enforcement army was on the case:

These are the moments when a president typically has to act as a head of state  to acknowledge the pain and fear Americans are feeling, and to reassure them that their government is doing all it can to keep them safe. But this is President Trump, and he has often been oddly silent at times when other presidents would have offered soothing words.

In the case of Austin, the presidents silence  during a time when hes been so outspoken about so many things  suggests either ignorance or callousness. Either he is unaware that an American city is being terrorized, or he doesnt think its as important as Sean Hannitys appearances on Fox & Friends. Neither is acceptable.

The first three explosions  which killed 39-year-old Anthony House and 17-year-old Draylen Mason, as well as injuring two women  were package bombs, leading the Austin Police Department to caution residents not to open or touch any suspicious packages. When the second and third bombs exploded on March 12, investigators began to put together a pattern that suggested that the bombings were related: Houses and Masons families knew each other through black community activism. (The third bomb injured a Latina woman in east Austin, though its not clear whether it was intended for her.)

The president tweeted about a heartbreaking bridge collapse at Florida International University. He sent condolences to the families of two naval aviators. He fired his secretary of state over Twitter and spent the end of the week hinting ominously to the press that more firings were on the horizon. He warned about the hypothetical threat to the safety of Americans posed by dangerous criminal aliens, set free to prey on innocent Americans.

But he didnt say anything about the actual threat to the safety of innocent Americans posed by Austins package bombs.

A president who cared more about trying to reassure all Americans that he was their president regardless of whether they voted for him in 2016  or who felt any lingering shame over his response to violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, in September 2017, when his insistence on blaming both sides struck many as a defense of neo-Nazis  might have been particularly quick to condemn attacks that were killing black Americans involved in racial justice.

But the president  who, by all reports, is more self-confident and self-reliant than ever, and increasingly convinced that he understands the presidency better than his advisers  felt no need to do any of that.

The fourth explosion, which happened Sunday night and injured two cyclists, was similar enough to the previous bombs for investigators to believe the bombings were related, but was triggered by a tripwire  a much more sophisticated form of bomb, and one much harder to avoid.

Residents of the Austin neighborhood where Sunday nights bomb went off were told not to leave their houses Monday morning so that law enforcement could sweep the area. School buses didnt go in, and absences were excused.

The president tweeted about witch hunts instead.

Because both the cyclists were white and the bomb was in a southwestern Austin neighborhood (which, unlike the east Austin neighborhoods to which the package bombs were addressed, isnt predominantly black), the latest bombing might complicate the picture of the bombers motivations  though police stress that theyre not ruling out any potential motive right now. And the fifth bomb, which didnt explode in Austin but was apparently intended to, further complicates any understanding of who is doing this or why.

Honestly, that means the window for Trump to say something about Austin without awkward follow-up questions may have already closed. If he speaks out now, he runs the risk of making it look like he only cares now that white people are being harmed. But with each day he remains silent, it begins to look, more and more, like hes waiting for more information before he decides whether to condemn bombings killing Americans on American soil.

On Tuesday, the president is holding a White House roundtable on sanctuary cities  a (purported) safety threat he is always happy to talk about. The attorney general of Texas will be among the attendees. It would be an obvious opportunity for Trump to say something about the bombings, with an official from the state affected by them literally sitting in front of him. If the president doesnt, it will be a deafening silence.

The residents of Austin deserve to be just as safe and secure as anyone else in the country. If the president really believes that, its hard to understand what is keeping him from saying it, or tweeting it.