President Donald Trumps lawyers are helping him think through whether to sit down with special counsel Robert Mueller for an interview or fire him amid a potential staff shake-up.

Last Saturday, Trumps top personal lawyer, John Dowd, wanted Muellers probe into possible Trump campaign collusion with Russia during the 2016 presidential election ended. He first said his statement was as Trumps counsel, but then backtracked and said it was his personal view.

That contradicts what Ty Cobb, the lead White House lawyer working on the Trump-Russia case, has advocated for months: Cobb wants Trump to work closely with Muellers team and cooperate fully.

However, Dowd and Cobb may soon be on the way out. The New York Times reported that Dowd is thinking of stepping down because the president misbehaves despite advice to the contrary, but in the same article Dowd denied his resignation was imminent. The Times also reported Trump may soon fire Cobb for pushing a more cooperative strategy, although Trump has apparently reassured Cobb his job is safe.

What is clear is that the team is larger  for now. Joseph diGenova, who joined Trumps legal squad on Monday, is most famous for his hyperbolic attacks on the Russia investigation during Fox News hits.

He will likely push for Trump to reverse course, arguing that the Mueller investigation should be shut down and the FBI officials who participated in it be investigated. The appointment of a special counsel will go down in history as one of the worst decisions ever made by a Justice Department official, as he put it in a January 30 Fox News interview.

So it seems Trumps legal team is headed for dysfunction. But that makes sense, in a way, because there isnt actually one single Trump legal team. There are several lawyers who represent Trump in different ways, and each has his own role, agenda, and jurisdiction.

Here, then, is a simple guide to the various lawyers representing Trump: who they are, what roles they have in the Trump-Russia investigation, and why they seem to clash so often.

Don McGahn, who was a Trump campaign lawyer, is the official White House counsel  that is, the White Houses top lawyer. That means he has multiple responsibilities such as vetting potential nominees and ensuring that federal employees follow ethics laws.

Rarely does an order or a memo leave the White House without the counsels sign-off, Mother Jones reported in a McGahn profile last summer.

McGahns highest calling is to keep members of government  including the president  out of legal trouble. Hes done that already: he reportedly stopped Trump from firing Mueller last summer. However, McGahn is also tied up in the Russia investigation, and that makes his ability to work on the Russia case much harder.

Heres why: Last May, former acting Attorney General Sally Yates testified that she told McGahn former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn had lied to the FBI during the Russia investigation. That matters because its possible the White Houses top lawyer knew Flynn had committed a crime when Trump chose to fire Comey.

The veracity of Yatess claim has since been challenged, but its still bad news for McGahn. As a result, earlier this year McGahn recommended that Trump hire another lawyer to take care of the White Houses response to the Russia probe.

Ty Cobb joined the White House last July as a special counsel. He oversees the White Houses legal and media response to the Russia investigation. Politico reports that his day-to-day responsibilities include reviewing internal documents related to the Russia investigation and responding to reporters.

Cobbs main duty is to ensure no one in the White House breaks the law  like obstruct justice  as Muellers probe intensifies. Thats important to stress: Cobbs legal loyalty isnt only to Trump, but to all members of the executive branch. But unlike McGahn, Cobbs portfolio is much narrower.

Experts note that Cobbs role is legally ambiguous: How can he represent the White House but also focus his time and attention on the Russia probe, which centers on the president? Its still not entirely clear how Cobb can really separate the two as he does his job, experts tell me.

But there is someone whose sole job is to represent the president from any legal trouble brought on by Muellers probe.

John Dowd, a veteran Washington defense attorney, is Trumps top personal lawyer. That means hes paid by the president, not by the federal government.

Dowd joined Trumps personal defense last June specifically to defend Trump personally from any charges by Mueller. Its unclear exactly how many lawyers Dowd leads, however, but he works closely with Jay Sekulow, the chief counsel at the conservative American Center for Law and Justice, who regularly defends Trump in the media. Its likely diGenova will have a similar portfolio to Sekulows.

Dowds role highlights the important distinction between Trump the president and Trump the man. Dowd has no connections to Trumps role as president; hes there solely to represent Trump as an individual. After all, much of what Mueller is investigating happened before Trump became president.

So the question then becomes: How closely do these lawyers interact?

McGahn, Cobb, and Dowd interact to discuss their work, but they ultimately have different jobs to do.

Theres plenty of room to work together, but they have to do it in a way thats consistent with their ethical obligations and their legal obligations, Andy Wright, a former White House lawyer who is now at Savannah Law School, told me in an interview. Theyre not on the same team.

This can play out in important ways, especially as it relates to which lawyer Trump  or government officials possibly under investigation  should talk to about the Russia probe.

Neil Eggleston, who served as President Barack Obamas White House counsel from 2014 to 2017, told me that there is no attorney-client privilege when a White House lawyer talks to the president of the United States or anybody else in the White House, because a White House lawyer works for the government, not the individual.

And so if Don McGahn had a one-on-one conversation with President Trump about whether he should fire Comey, theres no attorney-client privilege that would attach to that, Eggleston added.

In other words, Trump is better off discussing Russia-probe matters with his personal lawyers, Dowd, Sekulow, and DiGenova because attorney-client privilege applies to that relationship, which means he doesnt have to divulge any of their conversations to Mueller. Cobb and McGahn cant help him with that, and Mueller could even interview them about their chats with Trump.

Because the lawyers have different roles and responsibilities, disagreements over how best to defend Trump are pretty much inevitable. For example, Dowd and Cobb famously met last September at a restaurant in Washington, DC, to discuss their work.

Cobb complained that McGahn was hiding documents he needed in a safe and also worried there was a McGahn spy on his team. Its unclear if any of that is true, but it goes to show just how deep the divisions among the presidents lawyers actually are.