Illinoiss primary is underway, as voters choose their top candidates to run in the states governors race and 18 congressional races this November. We have the live results from key races below, courtesy of Decision Desk HQ.

Its an exciting primary on several fronts.

For one, Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner is among the least popular governors in the country and has overseen the state during a severe financial crisis, with $15 billion in unpaid bills and a pension debt of more than a quarter-trillion dollars  the highest in the nation. It makes this election cycle a major opportunity for Democrats to pick up the governors mansion  and theres a bitterly competitive Democratic primary to claim the ticket. But Rauner is getting challenged too, by a right-wing conservative who says hes too liberal on LGBTQ rights and abortions.

Meanwhile, there are two House primaries that have picked up national attention: Illinoiss Third Congressional District is a matchup between an incumbent pro-life Democrat, Rep. Dan Lipinski, and progressive political newcomer Marie Newman. Whoever wins will be up against an actual Nazi, Arthur Jones, who is running unopposed for the Republican ticket, in November.

Then there is a race to replace the retiring Democratic Rep. Luis Gutierrez, a fierce immigration advocate in Congress who has been among the loudest voices on the left to protect DREAMers.

In the Republican gubernatorial primary on Tuesday, Rauner is facing Jeanne Ives, a conservative military veteran who has served in the Illinois state House since 2013.

Ivess pitch: Shes an anti-LGBTQ rights, tough on immigration, anti-abortion social conservative who wants to cut state taxes and will roll back Rauners liberal agenda. Ives, who has consistently trailed Rauner in the polls, has tightened the race in recent weeks.

She picked up an endorsement from National Review and is trying to appeal to a more conservative Republican primary voter base by painting Rauner as too liberal views on social issues.

A Republican governor in a blue state, Rauner came into office as a proabortion rights Republican who promised his base that he had no social agenda. But after he signed a law that expanded taxpayer-subsidized abortions for women covered by Medicaid and state employee insurance, his positions have become a major liability among conservative Republicans voters.

Three candidates lead a crowded Democratic field: venture capitalist and billionaire entrepreneur J.B. Pritzker, who led infrequent polls; progressive state Sen. Daniel Biss; and developer Chris Kennedy (the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedys son).

As Voxs Ella Nilsen explained, there wasnt a lot that differentiated the three candidates on key policy issues  namely, taxes and the budget. Pritzker, Kennedy, and Biss all wanted to institute a progressive income tax, in which higher earners get taxed more.

The divide cames down to establishment political ties and corruption allegations:

Which Democrat will be running against a Nazi in November?

Lipinski, the incumbent, has represented Illinoiss Third District, which includes parts of Chicago and its suburbs, since 2005. He chairs the House Blue Dogs, a coalition of moderate to right-leaning Democrats. Hes a prolife Democrat who voted against the Affordable Care Act and the DREAM Act and voted to defund Planned Parenthood.

His challenger, Newman, is a first-time candidate who is running on a left-wing platform that supports health care for all, a $15 minimum wage, and LGBTQ and reproductive rights.

As Voxs Anna North writes, the primary will provide an early test of a deep conflict emerging in the Democratic Party.

After serving the district for 25 years, Rep. Luis Gutierrez announced last November he would be retiring, endorsing former mayoral candidate Jesus Chuy Garcia, the Cook County commissioner.

Three Democrats are vying for the open seat in a predominantly Hispanic district, which includes parts of Chicago and the surrounding suburbs. Garcia is running against Sol Flores, who runs a homelessness nonprofit, and Richard Gonzalez, a police sergeant.

All three have campaigned on fighting for DREAMers  something that has been a priority for Gutierrez.