President Donald Trump, who assailed Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail for her use of a private email server as secretary of state, has reportedly bucked cellphone security protocols in the White House because he thinks theyre too inconvenient. Trump insists on using a phone that isnt equipped with security features that would best shield his communications.

According to a report from Eliana Johnson, Emily Stephenson, and Daniel Lippman at Politico, citing two senior administration officials, Trump uses at least two iPhones in the White House. One is capable of making calls, and the other has only the Twitter app and some news sites. Trump has resisted advice from aides that he swap out the Twitter phone every 30 days and has gone as long as five months without it being checked by security experts.

Its no secret that Trump prizes his ability to communicate with the outside world via Twitter, where he can connect with supporters and circumvent the press to get out his message. And it is also well-known that he often calls friends and advisers to chat, weigh his options, and seek advice. The Politico report suggests that hes not following security protocol as he does this  and because his call-capable phone has a camera and microphone, it could be a prime target for hackers. (The GPS locator on it is disabled.)

Per Politico, President Barack Obama allowed his phones to be examined by telecommunications staffers for suspicious activity on a monthly basis. When he was elected, he publicly lobbied to keep his BlackBerry, and his transition team put together a military-grade phone without a microphone, camera, or location tracker for him to use as president that couldnt make or receive any calls.

I get the thing, and theyre all like, Well, Mr. President, for security reasons ... it doesnt take pictures, you cant text, the phone doesnt work ... you cant play music on it, Obama joked in an interview with Tonight Show host Jimmy Fallon in 2016 of his phone capabilities. At that point, he had been upgraded to an iPhone from a BlackBerry, but the limitations remained. Basically, its like, does your three-year-old have one of those play phones?

A West Wing official told Politico that Trumps call-capable phones are seamlessly swapped out on a regular basis through routine support operations and that the Twitter phone didnt need to be changed out because of its security controls. The official also said the devices are actually more secure than Obamas because of inherent capabilities and advancement in technologies, even if the one does have a camera and a microphone.

Experts told Politico thats not the case and that what Trump is doing is risky to security because hes the highest-value target for hackers imaginable.

This isnt the first time Trumps phone habits have raised eyebrows. During the transition, whether he would keep up his habit of constant tweeting and freely picking up the phone to call friends and reporters was an open question. After his election, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called Trump to congratulate him on his victory after getting his phone number from professional golfer Greg Norman. Trump traded in his old Android phone when he was inaugurated.