Jared Kushner may soon get his first big legislative breakthrough  with a prison reform bill.

The efforts of President Donald Trumps son-in-law earned an endorsement last week from the president himself, who said at a White House summit on prison reform that if lawmakers get a bill to his desk, I will sign it. On Tuesday, Kushners favored bill, the First Step Act, was passed by the House of Representatives.

The bill would not reform or reduce how long people are sentenced to prison for, which has been the prime target of criminal justice reformers over the past few years. Instead, the bill focuses on rehabilitating people once theyre already in prison by incentivizing them, with the possibility of earlier release, to partake in rehabilitation programs. As Kushner explained at the White House summit, The single biggest thing we want to do is really define what the purpose of a prison is. Is the purpose to punish, is the purpose to warehouse, or is the purpose to rehabilitate?

But the second major step for the bill is the Senate, where its likely to face much stiffer opposition. The Senate opposition is all over the place  some prominent Democrats and Republicans argue that the bill doesnt go far enough, while a Republican who blocked previous criminal justice reform efforts, Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton, appears to be working in secret to build opposition to the First Step Act because it goes too far.

Even if it does pass, though, the bill wouldnt amount to a very big change in Americas criminal justice system. Thats in part because the federal prison system makes up a relatively small portion of the USs incarcerated population. Beyond that, the bill pursues some fairly mild reforms; after all, it couldnt have gotten approval from Trump, whos described himself as tough on crime, if it did a lot to reduce Americas prison population.

Still, if it passes, the First Step Act would be the first major federal criminal justice reform in years.

The First Step Act, short for Formerly Incarcerated Reenter Society Transformed Safely Transitioning Every Person Act (Congress will do anything for a good acronym), is a fairly mild criminal justice reform bill. The bills limited reach is even written into its name, meant to indicate that the bill is only the first step in reforming the federal criminal justice system.

To understand why, its important to first understand the two main kinds of prison reform: the front end and back end. Front-end changes are what people typically describe as sentencing reform: They focus on reducing the amount of people sent to prison and the amount of time people spend in prison by changing what happens before someone is locked up  meaning, when someone is arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced. Back-end reforms, meanwhile, focus on cutting prison time once people are already incarcerated  by, for instance, offering credits for good behavior that may let someone get out earlier than they were sentenced for.

The First Step Act focuses exclusively on the back end. In doing this, the bill doesnt truly address the core causes of mass incarceration  that prison sentences are often too long, and that too many people are incarcerated in the first place. But, advocates argue, it will still work to reduce the federal prison population.

The bill would do this in several key ways:

Not every inmate benefits from all the changes. The system would use an algorithm to initially determine who can cash in earned time credits, with inmates deemed higher risk excluded from cashing in although not from earning the credits (which they could then cash in if their risk level is reduced).

But algorithms can perpetuate racial and class discrimination; for instance, an algorithm that excludes someone from earning credits due to previous criminal history may overlook that black and poor people are more likely to be incarcerated for crimes even when theyre not more likely to actually commit those crimes.

In a letter to lawmakers, the advocacy group Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, which typically backs criminal justice reform, wrote that the algorithm risks embedding deep racial and class bias into decisions that heavily impact the lives and futures of federal prisoners and their families.

The bill does put checks on and offers ways around the algorithm, but critics of the bill worry that those would not do enough.

The bill also excludes certain inmates from earning credits entirely, including undocumented immigrants and people who are convicted of high-level offenses. The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights criticized this too, arguing that excluding entire groups of people from receiving early-release credits will undermine efforts to reduce prison overcrowding and improve public safety since such exclusions weaken the incentive to participate in recidivism-reduction programming.

There are other complaints about the bills provisions, including claims that the funding it authorizes simply isnt enough to overcome the giant waitlists for rehabilitation programs and concerns that it may facilitate more privatization of prison services.

The bill also makes other changes aimed at improving conditions in prisons, including banning the shackling of women during childbirth and requiring that inmates are placed closer to their families. These portions face very little opposition from just about anyone.

What the bill wont do, though, is reduce or limit mandatory minimum sentences for drugs or other offenses. Thats in large part because the Trump administration, particularly Attorney General Jeff Sessions, really oppose anything that actually reduces prison sentences.

As a senator, Sessions blocked a previous criminal justice reform bill in large part because it would have effectively reduced prison sentences for some low-level offenses. As attorney general, Sessions characterized a bill that would reform mandatory minimums as a grave error  effectively killing the legislation.

By avoiding the front end reforms, then, the First Step Act tries to avoid opposition from the Trump administration and Sessions in particular. But in doing so, its drawn criticism from politicians and activists who are normally on the side of criminal justice reform.

In the Senate, Democrats Cory Booker (NJ), Dick Durbin (IL), and Kamala Harris (CA) are normally on the side of criminal justice reform. But when it comes to the First Step Act, they have strongly opposed the bill  sending a letter on Thursday condemning the legislation as a step backwards and urging their Democratic colleagues to vote against it.

The prominent Democrats have been joined by several civil rights groups that typically back criminal justice reform, including the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Right and the American Civil Liberties Union. These groups sent out another letter this week, similarly asking House members to vote against the bill.

Other criminal justice reform groups, such as #Cut50 and Right on Crime, support the bill.

So whats going on here? As noted above, the politicians and activist groups have some complaints about certain provisions in the bill (which you can read more about in their letters). But the primary concern isnt really whats in the bill; its whats not in the legislation.

The letter from Booker, Durbin, and Harris makes this very clear  explicitly noting that they would have tolerated some of their concerns with the First Step Acts provisions if such provisions came with broader criminal justice reform.

We have supported prison reform legislation with some of the deficiencies outlined above as part of broader criminal justice reform legislation that includes critical reforms to federal sentencing laws, the Democrats wrote. We have done so only because it was necessary to secure sufficient support for sentencing reform in a Republican-controlled Congress. However, we are unwilling to support flawed prison reform legislation that does not include sentencing reform.

Part of the reasoning here is that prison reform on its own is too little. Without cutting how many and how long people are going into prison, you can never hope to fully address mass incarceration and prison overcrowding.

But the opposition is also partly strategic. Without the more widely accepted prison reform provisions, a criminal justice bill with sentencing reforms is simply much less likely to pass Congress. So passing this bill now could pose a threat, the thinking goes, to future criminal justice reform efforts.

Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), who introduced the First Step Act in the House with Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA), shot back at the criticisms in his own letter to his colleagues. He claimed that the Booker-Durbin-Harris letter is riddled with factual inaccuracies and deliberately attempts to undermine the nationwide prison reform effort.

Jeffries argued that the bills critics arent properly considering the political realities of the current situation, with a Republican in the White House and Republican control of Congress. For this reason, it is not clear how exactly the opposition proposes to achieve comprehensive criminal justice reform without first considering the bipartisan prison reform legislation pending in the House, he wrote.

From this view, its better to pass something that makes a bit of progress than nothing at all.

Still, the Democratic opposition means the First Step Act faces tough odds in the Senate, where it will likely need 60 votes, including at least nine Democratic votes, to pass. Senate Judiciary Chair Chuck Grassley (R-IA), who oversees criminal justice issues in the chamber, also reportedly opposes the bill because it doesnt include sentencing reform  leading Politico to label it as DOA in the Senate.

While all this is going on, at least one major opponent of criminal justice reform appears to be trying to stop the First Step Act in the Senate by other means. Although Sen. Cotton hasnt taken a public position on the bill, emails obtained by Politico suggest that his office has been reaching out to law enforcement agencies to get them to oppose the bill. One organization, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, appeared to drop its support of the bill following Cottons request.

Cotton, for his part, has argued that the US actually has an under-incarceration problem. From his perspective, stiffer prison penalties deter crime, keeping Americans safe.

This goes against the empirical evidence on the topic, which has consistently found that more incarceration and longer prison sentences do little to combat crime. A 2015 review of the research by the Brennan Center for Justice estimated that more incarceration  and its abilities to incapacitate or deter criminals  explained about zero to 7 percent of the crime drop since the 1990s, though other researchers estimate it drove 10 to 25 percent of the crime drop since the 90s.

And other studies have shown that more incarceration can even lead to more crime. As the National Institute of Justice concluded in 2016, Research has found evidence that prison can exacerbate, not reduce, recidivism. Prisons themselves may be schools for learning to commit crimes.

The First Step Act starts to chip away at this problem at the federal level, although its overall impact is unlikely to be very large.

The bill still faces a tough road ahead through the Senate. But assuming it passes, even its most ardent supporters acknowledge that it will have a fairly small impact on the size of the federal prison system  contributing only bit by bit to reductions in incarceration over time if inmates take up rehabilitation programs, behave well, and therefore earn more credits to get out of prison early. In a broader national context, this means the bill will have a very little effect on mass incarceration overall.

Thats because the federal prison system, which is what this bill focuses entirely on, is only a small part of the overall US prison system.

Consider the numbers: According to the US Bureau of Justice Statistics, 87 percent of US prison inmates are held in state facilities (and most state inmates are in for violent, not drug, crimes). That doesnt even account for local jails, where hundreds of thousands of people are held on a typical day in America. Just look at this chart from the Prison Policy Initiative, which shows both local jails and state prisons far outpacing the number of people incarcerated in federal prisons:

One way to think about this is what would happen if Trump used his pardon powers to their maximum potential  meaning he pardoned every single person in federal prison right now. That would push down Americas overall incarcerated population from about 2.1 million to about 1.9 million.

That would be a hefty reduction. But it also wouldnt undo mass incarceration, as the US would still lead all but one country in incarceration: With an incarceration rate of around 593 per 100,000 people, only the small nation of El Salvador would come out ahead  and America would still dwarf the incarceration rates of other developed nations like Canada (114 per 100,000), Germany (78 per 100,000), and Japan (45 per 100,000).

Similarly, almost all police work is done at the local and state level. There are about 18,000 law enforcement agencies in America, only a dozen or so of which are federal agencies.

While the federal government can incentivize states to adopt specific criminal justice policies, studies show that previous efforts, such as the 1994 federal crime law, had little to no impact. By and large, it seems local municipalities and states will only embrace federal incentives on criminal justice issues if they actually want to adopt the policies being encouraged.

Criminal justice reform, then, is going to fall largely to municipalities and states, and a bill that might slightly cut incarceration on the federal level isnt going to have a very big effect. (To this end, many cities and states are actually way ahead of the federal government when it comes to criminal justice reform, with many passing the kinds of sentencing reforms that the federal system has struggled to enact.)

Thats not to downplay the work of criminal justice reformers who are trying to reduce the size and burden of what amounts to a fairly large prison system at the federal level. But to understand the bill, its important to put its full impact on mass incarceration in the broader national context.