There are two main races to watch in Arkansass primary election Tuesday. First, the states conservative Gov. Asa Hutchinson is running for reelection, but hell have to fend off a right-wing primary challenger. Second, theres a Democratic primary for a GOP-held congressional district that could potentially be competitive this fall.

Polls close at 7:30 pm Central time (8:30 pm Eastern). Live results will be posted below when they are available.

Asa Hutchinson, a former member of Congress and US attorney, was elected governor in 2014 and is running for a second term. Hes being challenged from the right by Jan Morgan, whom the Arkansas Times described as a hog-riding, Muslim-banning, gun-toting, airbrushing, RINO-busting gadfly from Hot Springs.

Hutchinson is a staunch conservative with a strong approval rating in this red state, so hes a solid favorite for reelection in the fall. But first, Morgan is challenging him from the right on a platform of, basically, bigotry and right-wing nuttery  she owns a gun range and gained notoriety in 2014 after declaring it would be a Muslim Free Zone. Shes basically attacking Hutchinson from the right on any issue, Dylan Scott writes.

Democrats arent particularly optimistic about winning this seat, but Jared Henderson, who was executive director for Teach for Americas Arkansas programs, is their expected nominee.

The Republican incumbent in this district is Rep. French Hill, a former banker who served in George H.W. Bushs Treasury Department before winning election to Congress in 2014. Trump won the district by a little over 10 points in 2016, so it wont be an easy pickup for Democrats  but it is on the partys target list.

State Rep. Clarke Tucker, a Harvard graduate, lawyer, and cancer survivor, is the DCCC-favored candidate. But hes being challenged by Paul Spencer, a farmer and teacher running on Medicare-for-fall. Teacher Gwen Combs and University of Arkansas employee Jonathan Dunkley are also in the race. If no candidate tops 50 percent of the primary vote, there will be a runoff on June 19.