The Pennsylvania Supreme Court released a new map for the states US House of Representatives districts Monday, to replace the old one it struck down as a Republican partisan gerrymander. And the new map is positively fantastic news for Democrats in their effort to take back the House this fall.

Democrats get everything they could want, the New York Timess Nate Cohn tweeted when he first saw the map Monday.

With few exceptions its Democrats dream come true, the Cook Political Reports Dave Wasserman tweeted. GOP not going to like this at all.

The net impact of the new map is:

- It creates two new districts where Democrats are favored that didnt exist in the previous map (and in one of those, theyre overwhelmingly favored).

- It keeps the same number of very closely divided swing districts that existed before (three).

- It changes one district that had been overwhelmingly Republican to be one where the GOP is favored but not entirely certain to win (Trump won the new district by about 9 points).

- Overall, it reduces by one the number of safe Republican districts (where Trump won by more than 15 points), and by one the number of lean Republican districts (where Trump won by 5 to 15 points).

So open seats held by retiring GOP Reps. Pat Meehan and Charlie Dent are more likely to flip, Republican incumbents like Rep. Ryan Costello and Keith Rothfus are now more embattled, and even GOP Rep. Scott Perry is no longer assured of skating to reelection.

Republicans plan to sue in federal court to try to strike down the new map. But since the state Supreme Court ruling was based on the Pennsylvania Constitution, its not clear why the federal courts would get involved.

After their landslide victories in the 2010 midterm elections, Republicans gerrymandered Pennsylvania within an inch of its life, in what Sean Trende of RealClearPolitics suggested could be the gerrymander of the decade. Heres the map the GOP came up with:

Note above the oddly shaped districts surrounding Pittsburgh on the southwest of the map  the 12th and 18th  and the truly bizarre mess around Philadelphia on its east side, especially the contortionist 6th and 7th districts.

Ugly-looking districts dont always point to gerrymandering, but in this case, they do  Republicans tried to pack Democratic-leaning areas together into very few districts while surrounding the states big cities with districts Republicans would win comfortably.

To get a sense of how powerful Pennsylvanias gerrymander was, consider that in 2012, Democratic candidates won slightly more votes in US House elections and Barack Obama won the state. But the states 18 House seats didnt split 9-9 between the parties  instead, Republicans won 13 seats there, and Democrats just won five. No seats changed partisan hands in the 2014 or 2016 elections, either.

But this January, the state Supreme Court  which has a Democratic majority  struck down the existing map as a partisan gerrymander that, a majority of justices wrote, violated the state constitution. The Republican state legislature and Gov. Tom Wolf (D) failed to agree on a new map, so the court instituted one itself.

The new map, below, looks cleaner, splits fewer counties, and will likely lead to many more competitive elections:

So in the southwest of the map, Pittsburgh is suddenly surrounded by one safe Republican district (the 14th) and one swing district (the new 17th), rather than the two safe Republican districts that existed before. Around Philadelphia in the east, meanwhile, the conspicuous contortions are now gone.

The new map is much more favorable to Democrats than most election wonks expected, given the geographic patterns of where people actually live in Pennsylvania. Indeed, as Trende writes in an interesting tweetstorm, the consistent, subtle choices made make clear that this map was drawn with an eye toward shifting multiple districts leftward  to increase competitiveness.

But it doesnt seem to be an overwhelmingly or unfairly Democratic map, since, after all, Trump still won 10 of the 18 new districts. Its a map designed, seemingly deliberately, to compensate for the partys geographic disadvantages and give them a fighting shot in several districts.

The New York Timess Nate Cohn, Matthew Bloch, and Kevin Quealy put together this extremely helpful breakdown of the new partisan numbers for each new district, and you should really read the whole thing.

But my top-level takeaways from their new numbers are as follows.

First off, districts potential competitiveness can be measured in different ways, but if we take the obvious measurement of how much each presidential candidate won in each district in 2016, we move from:

So even from that birds-eye view pegged to 2016 results, its clear that, on net, two districts became much more Democratic in the new map.

Now, lets get more specific about what the changes mean for particular districts and members of Congress:

All in all, that makes six Republican-held seats that suddenly have a more Democratic electorate  with the open seats held by Meehan and Dent, and the seats currently held by Costello and Rothfus, suddenly growing much more likely to flip. However, theres also one notable change the other way, as Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R) moves from a lean Trump district to a solidly Republican one (the new 11th District).

In contrast, there are no comparable changes that put any of the few districts held by Democrats into play. Only one of them, Rep. Matt Cartwright (D), currently represents a district Trump won (by about 10 points), and his districts partisan breakdown looks like it will stay about the same, per the Times. (This will be the new Eighth District.) Beyond that, there were four more safe Democratic seats before and after the new map.

Now, just because Ive listed a member of Congress in a certain district doesnt mean theyll actually end up running in that district. An article by the Philadelphia Inquirers Jonathan Tamari floats the possibility, for instance, that Costello could choose to run in the neighboring open Ninth District, which contains part of his old district and is more safely Republican. The same is true for challengers  there could be a bit of musical chairs here, as candidates on both sides decide which districts suit their ambitions best. (The states filing deadline is March 20.)

But however the candidates shake out, this new map is enormously good news for Democrats in their effort to take back the House. Republicans currently hold the majority in the entire House of Representatives by 24 seats. Now, all of a sudden, their chances in several key Pennsylvania races have sharply improved  there are now five very plausible pickup opportunities in this state alone. If the party can score victories on this more favorable new turf, it will be a major help in their efforts to retake the chamber.