John Brennan, the former CIA Director under President Obama, believes that Russia may have some personal dirt on President Trump that is causing Trump to behave in a fawning way toward Vladimir Putin.

Of course, there is no actual evidence of this, or of Trump in any way fawning toward Russia. What Trump did was to congratulate Putin on winning another 6 years in office, a standard practice for any President. Yes, even for Barack Obama who did the exact same thing in 2012.

Appearing on MSNBCs Morning Trump Bash,  Brennan stated that he believes Trump is afraid of the Russian president, and that means They may have something on him personally to roll out and make his life more difficult.

The fact that he has had this fawning attitude toward Mr. Putin, not saying anything negative about him, I think continues to say to me that he does have something to fear and something very serious to fear.

Vladimir Putin was the person who authorized interference on our election, Brennan continued.

Vladimir Putin was involved in directing the poisoning of an individual on British soil, and to congratulate him and treat him so nicely while he treats Americans with such disdain, I think it just demonstrates he looks at the world through a prism of what is going to help and protect Donald Trump. Brennan declared.

That is not what presidents are supposed to do. he added (again, Obama did the same thing).

The Washington Post also noted that a plethora of other world leaders congratulated Putin:

Putin must have dirt on all of them then.

Continuing his attack on Trump, Brennan declared that the President is self-absorbed and trying to protect his flanks and promote his own interests.

Mr. Trump, I think is failing on so many fronts, Brennan continued, adding I used in one of my tweets the term charlatan. I think he is masterful in terms of putting out messages that are deceptive and lead people to believe he has solutions to very complicated problems.

Brennan also said he thinks Trump has shown a lack of understanding of international affairs as well as a real ignorance of what it takes to be president of the United States.

The former CIA head also described Trump as mean-spirited and dishonest.

He has shown a lack of integrity, and he has continued to, I think, demean the office of the presidency. Brennan exclaimed.