Law enforcement officials released the identify of the suspected Austin bomber Wednesday who killed himself after carrying out a series of attacks throughout the city.

The suspect, 24-year-old Mark Anthony Conditt, a resident of Pflugerville, Texas, self detonated an explosive after being confronted by SWAT officers off of Interstate 35.

One officer is said to have fired at the vehicle at the time of the blast while another was injured in the explosion.

Police initially located Conditt at a Round Rock area hotel after using what was described as cell phone technology  a potential reference to an IMSI-catcher device.

Conditt, who was not previously known to law enforcement, first came up on the radar of police after surveillance camera footage was recovered from a FedEx store in which an unexploded bomb was discovered.

Images from the surveillance footage show Conditt wearing gloves and what appears to be a wig.

The video led police to obtain purchase receipts and a warrant for Conditts Google data, which is said to have included searches for FedEx locations.

The suspect also reportedly purchased what police described as exotic batteries online from Asia.

Texas Gov. Greg Abbott revealed Wednesday that Conditt lived with two roommates, both of which have been questioned by investigators.

Those two roommates have been talking to law enforcement, Abbott said.

Pflugerville Police evacuated 4-6 blocks around Conditts home Wednesday during their investigation.

Abbott also said a treasure trove of information was found at Conditts residence.

The Austin American-Statesman reports that Conditt is believed to have worked at one point as a computer-repair technician and then later in the shipping and receiving department of Crux Semiconductor in Austin.

A political blog online from 2012 was also suspected to belong to Conditt.

Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said during a Wednesday morning press conference that investigators are still looking for a motive.

We do not understand what motivated him to do what he did but we believe this individual is responsible for all incidents dating back to March 2, Manley said during an early morning press conference.

Manley also warned that other explosives could be present and that investigators are attempting to rule out the possibility of any accomplices.

Conditt was alleged to have been responsible for five bombings since March 2, resulting in two deaths and other injuries. An unexploded bomb was also found Tuesday at a FedEx distribution center in Austin.

President Donald Trump congratulated law enforcement officers for their work in a tweet early Wednesday morning.

MORE: Austin Bombing Suspect Dead After Blowing Self Up