There are plenty of reasons to think President Donald Trump might try to pardon his way out of special counsel Robert Muellers crosshairs.

In March, the New York Times reported that a lawyer for Trump discussed the possibility of pardoning former advisers Paul Manafort and Michael Flynn with their lawyers. The goal, presumably, was to persuade them that they didnt need to cooperate with Mueller because hed spare them jail time regardless of whether they were convicted. Trumps recent pardon of former Bush administration official Scooter Libby, as well as his pardon of Sheriff Joe Arpaio last year, would also show Mueller targets like Manafort that Trump is willing to use his powers to protect his allies.

But if Trump is considering using his pardon power to undercut Muellers Russia probe, he might be overlooking a clause in the Constitution that expressly forbids it. This, at least, is the argument Fordham law professor Jed Shugerman made in a column for the Washington Post last month.

According to Shugerman and his co-author, Ethan J. Leib, the Constitution says that the president cannot pardon people for the purpose of self-protection, which means he cannot pardon himself or others in order to shield himself from a criminal investigation. Nor can he use the pardon power to serve his own financial interests.

Their argument is based on a line in the Constitution known as the take care clause, which imposes specific obligations on the president. The clause, Shugerman and Leib argue, mandates that the president execute the laws in such a way as to advance the public interest and not the presidents private interests.

I reached out to Shugerman to find out more about the take care clause and why he thinks it could stop Trump from abusing his pardon power.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Ive heard time and again that the president has virtually unlimited pardoning power. Is that wrong?

I think the key thing is what people mean by the word virtually. Yes, people have typically understood the pardon power as almost unlimited or almost absolute, but it would be inaccurate to say that its totally unlimited or totally absolute. The Supreme Court has made fairly clear that Congress cannot limit the pardon power; any limits on the pardon power have to come from the Constitution itself because thats where the pardon power comes from. So yes, presidential pardon power is quite broad, but there are constitutional limits.

Lets talk about the limits outlined in Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution. Whats the clause in there that forbids a president from using pardons to protect himself from an investigation?

This is a famous line of the Constitution thats called the take care clause. It says the president shall take care that the Laws be faithfully executed. The key phrase that people have overlooked in that line is what it means to be faithfully executed. That same line also comes up in the oath that the president takes; its the only oath in the Constitution that is spelled out word for word, and it says the president shall faithfully execute the laws. The founders knew what they were doing when they used this language, but over time weve missed the original significance of it.

Why is it significant?

This language comes directly from fiduciary documents from the 17th and 18th centuries. Fiduciary duties still come up today in the context of corporate boards, trusts, wills, and other legal documents that impose obligations on people to act in the best interests of the people theyre serving. A fiduciary duty means you cant serve your own personal interests over the interests of your client or company or, in the case of the president, your country.

For example, the executor of a will or estate cannot line his own pockets to the detriment of the estate or the beneficiaries. A CEO or a corporate board cannot embezzle money from the corporation to the detriment of corporate interests. So when the framers of the Constitution adopted this language from fiduciary law, they were drawing from those core legal principles.

So in the same way a lawyer or a CEO must act in the best interests of her client or company, a president is compelled by the Constitution to execute the laws in such a way as to protect the best interests of the people?

How difficult might it be to make a legal argument that the president was acting solely in his own self-interest? If the president pardons himself, that seems pretty clear-cut. But if hes pardoning other people, it may not be so simple even if its more or less apparent that hes acting out of self-interest.

This is the million-dollar question. So lets start with the core question about whether a president can pardon himself. Clearly, a self-pardon is a breach of fiduciary duty because its manifestly self-interested. But if a president managed to do this, the following administration could try to prosecute the president, which would force a court to examine that presidents self-pardon and decide whether or not it was invalid on the grounds that it violated his fiduciary duty to serve the best interests of the people over himself. Similarly, if a president pardons co-conspirators in a crime, the next administration could challenge those pardons in court by claiming they were invalid for the same reasons.

All of this makes sense to me, and its certainly a plausible reading of the Constitution, but has this ever been tested in court?

No. This is an argument that is based on historical research that unearths the background of the Constitutions text, but that background has been lost over time as weve started to talk differently about the Constitution. But the argument Im making is perfectly in line with the language and intent of the Constitution.

If we accept the claim that the president has an obligation to act for the right reasons, which is to say in the interests of the people, and not of himself, he seems to have already crossed this line by firing Comey because of the Russia investigation (which he actually admitted). We also know that Trumps personal lawyer floated the possibility of pardoning Manafort and Flynn, presumably to influence their decisions to cooperate with Mueller.

I want to repeat something you said, which is exactly right. The faithful execution language of the Constitution mandates that presidents and other officials must act for the right reasons and not for self-interest against the public interest. This also applies to the firing question.

Most people dont realize that the Constitution never explicitly mentions the power to fire. This was a gap in the Constitution that had to get worked out by the first Congress. So were making the argument that the Constitutions language regarding faithful execution has to be considered when we have only an implicit understanding that the president has the power to fire.

So the way this would work with, say, Mueller, is that Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein could go to a court and get an injunction to prevent their firing by the president based on this argument about faithless execution. Comey could have done that too, but that ship has already sailed. But I think someone like Mueller could argue that hes conducting a legitimate criminal investigation and therefore should be protected from being fired by the subject of that investigation.

Do you think this argument will be tested in court?

No, I dont. Mainly because Mueller has been careful and strategic in the ways that hes protected the investigation even in the event that hes fired. For example, the recent Michael Cohen raid was handed over to the Southern District of New York, so even if Mueller is fired, theres now a basis for another office to continue the investigation and perhaps to broaden it to state-level crimes, which are shielded from presidential pardons. So there are enough failsafes against his firing that I doubt hed ever need to test this argument in court.