The US Senate on Thursday confirmed Jim Bridenstine, a Republican Congress member from Oklahoma, to be the next administrator of NASA. The post has remained vacant since January 2017, when Charles Bolden, the space agencys leader under President Barack Obama, stepped down.

Bridenstine, 42, brings some odd qualifications to the job, and some controversy.

Typically, NASA administrators are chosen from within NASAs ranks, come up through the military, or have a background in science. Bridenstine has none of that. His qualifications: Hes former Navy pilot who once ran the Air and Space Museum in Tulsa. He also sits on the House Committee that oversees NASA. The third-term representative is now the first member of Congress to hold the administrator job.

Even members of Bridenstines own party have voiced concerns over what putting a politician in charge could mean for the future of the agency.

As a politician, Bridenstine has hedged on climate change, an issue NASA scientists study and track in many different ways. During his confirmation hearing in November, Bridenstine agreed that humans are the driving force behind climate change, but he would not agree with the assertion that human activity is the primary cause of it. Its an odd position to hold as the leader of an agency that provides some of the most comprehensive data on climate change in the world.

NASA has a staff of 17,000 and a budget of nearly $19 billion (not to mention the numerous contractors it works with). Bridenstines experience of managing a museum in Tulsa pales in comparison to the enormous complexity of NASA. Plus, there are new questions, raised by reporting from the Daily Beast, about whether Bridenstein used funds from the Tulsa Air and Space Museum to prop up a private venture. He reportedly ran the museum into a financial loss.

Bridenstine will also be controversial because hes been outspoken against LGBTQ rights. In 2013, he called the Supreme Court decision to legalize same-sex marriage a disappointment. He has also spoken out on the House floor criticizing the Boy Scouts of Americas decision to allowed LGBTQ members. In a speech, he charged that the left wing in the US wants to reshape organizations like the Boy Scouts into instruments for social change.

President Donald Trump first nominated Bridenstine to the position in September, and he was cleared by the Senate Commerce Committee in November.

But it was never clear if Bridenstine could clear the 50 Senate votes needed to nab the job. He faced unanimous opposition from Democrats and from a few within his own party. Notably, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio was worried about giving the job to a politician.

NASA is the one federal mission which has largely been free of politics, Rubio said in September, echoing the same concerns as his Florida colleague Sen. Bill Nelson, a former astronaut and the top Democrat on the Commerce Committee. I just think it could be devastating for the space program, Rubio said.

Rubio ultimately voted Thursday in favor of Bridenstines nomination. The day before, he citied concerns that NASAs acting administrator, Robert Lightfoot, is set to retire at the end of the month. While I wish the president would have nominated a space professional to run NASA, Rubio said in a statement, he wanted to avoid a gaping leadership void.

But it was actually Sen. Jeff Flake, a Republican from Arizona, who, in a surprise twist, cast what ended up being the deciding vote during both a procedural vote on Wednesday and a final vote on Thursday. It seems Flake may have changed his vote to gain leverage on other issues, like Cuba policy. The final vote was 50-to-49 in favor of confirmation.

Its hard to know what Bridenstines plans for the agency are because he has so little experience in the area and hasnt said much about them.

But there will be challenges. NASA will be launching hugely important missions in the coming years, including the long-delayed and far over-budget James Webb Space Telescope. NASA also plans to launch the Parker Probe Plus, a spacecraft to study the sun, and needs to decide whether to extend the mission of the International Space Station.

In the past, Bridenstine has called for a permanent US lunar outpost. And during his confirmation hearing, he said that finishing the Space Launch System and Orion programs  NASAs unfinished next generation of rockets and spacecraft for human missions  will be critical for the space agency. He also said hed work with Congress to decide the fate of the International Space Station, which is only funded until 2025.

In 2016, Bridenstine introduced the American Space Renaissance Act in the House. It never passed. But it serves as a guide to his ideas for space policy reform. Physics Today analyzed the legislation, and its clear that Bridenstine is keen on space exploration and less interested in understanding the Earth.

The bill calls for prioritizing the expansion of the human sphere of influence throughout the Solar System. It also calls for security of our satellites from space debris and foreign enemies. But Physics Today also notes that the bill would have eliminated the NASA objection of the expansion of human knowledge of the Earth and of phenomena in the atmosphere and space.

On earth science issues, Bridenstine has expressed enthusiasm about supporting research when it comes to weather forecasting. My constituents get killed in tornadoes, he once said at an industry conference. I care about space. And during his confirmation hearing, he said he wouldnt let politics interfere with earth science research.

Much remains unclear. What we do know is that the Trump administration, as a whole, has been hostile to the idea of NASA as an earth science agency and left it to languish without a full-time administrator longer than any previous administration. In 2017, the administration proposed cutting $102 million from NASAs earth science programs and eliminating four NASA earth science missions completely. Congress didnt allow those cuts to come to pass. But NASAs long-term future is far from assured.

For better or worse, the confirmation will break NASA out of the holding pattern its been in for the past year. The lapse in leadership has made it harder for the agency to plan long-term missions in space exploration.