Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is facing a tangle of accusations of unethical behavior  so many that its hard to keep up.

Questions about his conduct in office arose almost immediately after he was sworn in, when Pruitt displayed extreme paranoia by refusing to release his schedule to the public like past administrators, surrounding himself with a 24-hour security detail, and building a soundproof phone booth in his office.

Since then, journalists and investigators have revealed the phone booth cost $43,000, well in excess of federal limits, and that Pruitts security detail costs $3 million a year. Weve also learned that he regularly flew first class, his security detail accompanied him on personal trips, and he paid next to nothing to rent a cushy condo on Capitol Hill owned by an energy lobbyists wife.

There are also questions about Pruitts personnel decisions, like hiring his banker to run the Superfund program, allowing employees to keep side jobs as political consultants, and bypassing the White House to secure massive raises for two close aides.

Many of these allegations were fleshed out by a whistleblower in a long report to congressional Democrats. It added details like the fact that Pruitt asked aides to find housing for him, that he used to lights and sirens to make it to dinner reservations, that he opted for more luxurious accommodations on international trips than those recommended by the State Department, and that he sidelined staffers who questioned his habits. The whistleblower also said he was threatened by the head of Pruitts security detail when he raised concerns.

Government watchdogs now have a half-dozen investigations underway over these alleged ethical breaches during his time in office. One, the Government Accountability Office, has already found that Pruitt violated two laws.

But Pruitt has managed to keep his job through the hullabaloo in part because he is one of President Trumps most productive subordinates. Hes begun the process of rolling back 22 regulations and slowing down the overall pace of work at the EPA to create a more favorable environment for coal, oil, gas, chemicals, and agriculture interests.

The big question is whether any of these concerns will register with the president, who has continued to support Pruitt, but whose chief of staff has reportedly called for Pruitt to be fired. In a White House engulfed in chaos and spiraling legal problems, concerns about Pruitt at the EPA barely get any attention.