Responsibility for the separation of children from parents at the US border is on all Americans, a prominent Texas Democrat said on Sunday, Fathers Day, and not just the Trump administration which has implemented the controversial policy.

Id like to say its un-American but its happening right now in America, said Beto ORourke, a US representative, who in November will challenge Ted Cruz for his Senate seat. Speaking to CNNs State of the Union, he added: It is on all of us  not just the Trump administration. This is on all of us.

According to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) figures obtained by media on Friday, almost 2,000 children have been separated from their families at the southern border in six weeks. Amidst outcry, Donald Trump has stuck to the untrue claim that Democrats are to blame.

On Saturday, the president tweeted: Democrats can fix their forced family breakup at the Border by working with Republicans on new legislation, for a change! This is why we need more Republicans elected in November ... 

There is no law mandating the separation of families at the border. But Trump administration policy is to maximize criminal prosecutions of people caught trying to enter the US illegally. That means more adults are jailed, pending trial, so their children are removed from them.

Before the policy, many accused of illegal entry and without a criminal record were referred for civil deportation proceedings, which generally did not break up families.

The Trump policy was announced on 6 April and went into effect in May. From 19 April to 31 May, 1,995 children were separated from 1,940 adults, according to DHS figures for people who tried to enter the US between official border crossings.

The New York Times reported on Saturday that the Trump adviser Stephen Miller, an immigration hardliner who wrote the original travel ban on a list of Muslim-majority countries, was the chief driver of the zero-tolerance border policy.

Trumps repeated references to a Democratic law appear to involve one enacted in 2008 that passed unanimously in Congress and was signed by a Republican president, George W Bush. It was focused on freeing and helping children who come to the border without a parent or guardian and did not call for family separation.

ORourke organized a Fathers Day march to Tornillo, Texas, to what has been described as a tent structure for 16- and 17-year-olds detained at at the border. Some there had crossed the border on their own, ORourke told CNN. Others had made the journey with their parents and then been forcibly taken from them.



Those minors were now in Tornillo, he said, with no idea no idea when or if they will see their mothers or their fathers, on this Fathers Day, again.

This is inhumane, ORourke said, adding: We will we be judged for what we do or what we fail to do now.

Earlier this week ORourkes November opponent, Cruz, defended the Trump policy, saying: When you see reporters, when you see Democrats saying, Dont separate kids from their parents, what theyre really saying is dont arrest illegal aliens.

Speaking to reporters at a Republican convention in Texas on Saturday, Cruz said: Theres no doubt that the images that weve seen of children, and children being separated from their parents, are heartbreaking. They were heartbreaking when Obama was president.

I visited the Obama camps that he set up to detain little boys and little girls who crossed the border illegally. Illegal immigration produces human tragedies that are wrong.

On Fathers Day, Republicans tweeting messages about their fathers while backing or staying quiet on the Trump separation policy were prey to accusations of hypocrisy. Cruz tweeted a tribute of his own, writing: My dad has been my hero my whole life. Heres to wishing a very happy #FathersDay to all the dads out there!

One Republican congressman from Texas, who visited the Tornillo camp, said on Saturday it was a symptom of a flawed strategy.

In the land of the free and home of the brave we shouldnt use kids as deterrence, Will Hurd said.