House Speaker Paul Ryan announced he is on his way out  and hes defending Donald Trumps presidency until the bitter end.

Ryan told reporters Wednesday morning that he will not run for reelection this November, following a standard framework: He wants to see his kids more, and be a present husband. But his final remarks at the press conference were perhaps the most poignant. Asked if Trumps reshaping of the Republican Party played a role in his decision, Ryan said, Not at all.

Im grateful for the president for giving us this opportunity to get the country on the right track, he said. The fact that he gave us the ability to get this stuff done makes me proud of the accomplishments that Ive been a contributor to. It makes me satisfied that Ive made a big difference and hes given us that chance, and Im grateful to him for that, and thats really how I see it.

His defense of Trump in itself is not particularly surprising: Ryan is a party man. But its also a perfect articulation of a calculation  or perhaps miscalculation  Republicans made with Trump.

In the past 15 months, Ryan has transformed from a man who once held a moral high ground over Trump, denouncing his comments as racist and unacceptable, to one who has excused Trumps behavior as that of a political neophytes. Hes downplayed investigations into Trumps campaign and presidency and excused Trumps racism, xenophobia, and misconduct. Hes watched Trump abandon conservative beliefs on trade and immigration and has been forced to spin the presidents often politically incoherent ideas.

And still, Ryan says two words made Trumps presidency worth it: tax cuts.

Ryan has never had much of a close personal relationship with Trump. The two have a working rapport, but Trump reportedly finds Ryan dry, and hes dubbed him the boy scout, sources told Politico. The dynamics of their relationship was established early.

When Ryan endorsed Trump as the Republican nominee, he was endorsing his own agenda.

Its a question of how to move ahead on the ideas that I  and my House colleagues  have invested so much in through the years. Its not just a choice of two people, but of two visions for America, Ryan wrote in an op-ed in his hometown paper the Janesville Gazette, endorsing Trump in 2016.

And at the start of Trumps presidency, congressional Republicans, with control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, set forward an ambitious agenda. They would repeal and replace Obamacare in mere months, pass a major budget deal, and enact massive tax cuts.

Now, with Congress unlikely to accomplish much else this year, Ryan said he is leaving proud of having done two of those things.

Probably the two biggest achievements for me are, first, the major reform of our tax code for the first time in 36 years, which has already been a huge success for this country, and thats something Ive been working on in my entire adult life, Ryan told reporters of the $1.5 trillion tax cut Republicans passed at the end of the 2017  a law that has widely been panned as a boon for corporations and the ultrawealthy.

Something Ive focused on since becoming speaker is to rebuild our nations military, and after addressing our military readiness crisis, that was a top priority we got done last year as well, Ryan cited of his second accomplishment, referring to a $1.3 trillion spending bill that put military funding at historic levels and will keep the government open through September.

To be sure, this is a very narrow and rosy read of a year that has been made of a lot more politics and scandal than policy.

Ryans bet on Trump  as a vehicle to push major conservative reforms  was one many Republicans made.

In many ways, conservatives have made substantial gains in the past year through the White Houses deregulatory push and a wave of conservative judicial nominees.

But they also made a calculation that underestimated Trump  his volatility, the stakes of his willingness to speak his mind, his inexperience in office.

After months of highly visible party infighting, Obamacare repeal failed epically  in large part due to a lack of clarity from the White House. Republicans spent most days excusing Trumps tweets and White House scandals. And while Republicans managed to pass tax cuts, lawmakers are already worried the bill wont be popular enough in November to help them win elections. This week, the Congressional Budget Office reported the tax bill will contribute more than $1.5 trillion to the deficit. Paired with the spending bill, the deficit spending will increase by $11.7 trillion over the next 10 years.

Ryan says he is proud of the tax cuts and rebuilding the military. But Trump, who doesnt seem very interested in either, is stuck on a heated investigation into his campaign and pushing policy that only deepens party divides, from gun control and trade to immigration reform.

In Washington, Ryan has long established himself as a conservative ideologue with a clear agenda. Trump couldnt care less.