The judicial battle over the Trump administrations efforts to wind down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which protected 690,000 young unauthorized immigrants from deportation, has just been extended by several months.

On Monday, the Supreme Court rejected a highly unusual request from the Trump administration: to skip over the second level of the federal court process (the courts of appeals) by having the Supreme Court consider an order made in January by a California district court judge.

The January order partially reanimated the DACA program, which the Trump administration began winding down in September 2017 (with the expectation that work permits issued under the program would start expiring in large numbers on March 5 of this year).

Immigrants who have work permits under DACA (or whose work permits recently expired) are currently eligible to apply for renewals under the order. The Trump administration is trying to get that order overturned, so that it doesnt have to renew anyones work permits while the case over the constitutionality of ending DACA works its way through the courts.

By rejecting the administrations request, the Supreme Court isnt saying anything about the merits of the DACA program itself, or about the legal arguments over the Trump administrations decision to end it. Its just insisting that the case proceed the normal way, with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals hearing the administrations appeal of the California judges order (and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals on the East Coast hearing an appeal of a similar order issued in February by a New York judge).

That process is likely to take months  and its extremely unlikely that both appeals courts (both of which are fairly liberal and have consistently ruled against the Trump administration on immigration issues) are going to side with the administration. That means that renewals will likely remain open at least until the Supreme Court agrees to take up the cases after the appeals courts rule  which will almost certainly be during the Courts next term, which starts in October of this year.

In theory, by that point, Congress may have passed a bill to provide a longer-term solution for the status of DACA recipients and other unauthorized immigrants who came to the US as children (including those who meet the criteria for DACA but didnt apply before September 5, 2017; even under the federal court orders, no one can apply for DACA for the first time).

On the other hand, its possible that Congress could point to the now-prolonged court fight as yet another reason its not urgent for them to act.

On September 5, the Trump administration announced that it was ending DACA. The administration immediately stopped accepting new applications for two-year deportation protections and work permits. DACA recipients whose work permits were set to expire before March 5, 2018 were given a month to apply for one last two-year renewal. And immigrants whose work permits were set to expire after March 5 were given no chance to renew at all  the expiration date on the work permit they held would mark the last day they were able to work legally, and live without fear, in the United States.

Several different lawsuits got filed over the end of DACA, arguing that the Trump administration had acted illegally in winding down the program. In one of those  filed by the University of California  federal judge William Alsup ruled in January that there was evidence to suggest that the administration had in fact violated the law, by not going through a standard deliberative process or doing enough to consider the costs of ending DACA. Therefore, he said, he was going to put the rollback of the program on hold while he considered the legal questions more fully.

Heres the way the process is supposed to go from there: the Trump administration would appeal the judges ruling to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, then, if the 9th Circuit sided with the judge and against the administration (as is likely, given the 9th Circuits track record), take that appeal to the Supreme Court. Heres the way the process actually went: the Trump administration asked the Supreme Court to let them skip the 9th Circuit.

The Department of Justices ostensible reason was that the question of ending DACA was so important that it couldnt be dragged out (though, weirdly, the Trump administration didnt ask the Supreme Court to immediately put a hold on Judge Alsups ruling).

Its also possible that the administrations disdain for the liberal 9th Circuit, rooted in the meme that the Supreme Court routinely smacks down liberal decisions made by the West Coast court, led it to figure that the Supreme Court might be okay with bending the rules if it meant cutting the 9th Circuit out.

In the meantime, a New York judge issued a similar ruling to Judge Alsups  meaning that even if the 9th Circuit were to somehow side with Trump, it wouldnt change anything about what the administration could do. The Department of Justice now has two different rulings it has to overturn to get its way  whether in the 2nd and 9th Circuit Courts, or at the Supreme Court level after one of those circuit courts rules.

But the administrations repeated legal setbacks dont mean that DACA is going to last. For one thing, the program is already living in a weird, zombified form. For another thing, the legal arguments against the administration that the judges have relied on havent been about whether it was legal to end DACA at all  theyve been about whether the administration went about it the right way.

Even in a worst-case scenario for the administration, in which even the Supreme Court (which has granted the administration much more leeway on immigration policy than the 2nd and 9th Circuits) rules that the administration acted too hastily in killing DACA, it probably wouldnt prevent the administration from going through a slower, more deliberative process and achieving the same result.

Heres how DACA is working right now:

Heres what will happen after March 5:

Hundreds of thousands of immigrants have been in a state of uncertainty and anxiety since September 2017  and even earlier, as DACA recipients wondered what President Trump would do to them. Congress still has the power to alleviate that uncertainty. But if it couldnt do so without the impetus of a deadline, it may feel even less urgency without one.