The day after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, President Donald Trump tweeted that people [m]ust always report signs that may suggest a person is planning a mass killing. But more than a week later, its become clear that many people did report such signs about the shooter, 19-year-old Nikolas Cruz, to police  and law enforcement simply didnt act.

In fact, law enforcement didnt act at several points:

At practically every level, law enforcement seemed to fail  allowing Cruz to carry out a massacre that killed 17 people. The gaps in law enforcements response have driven calls for Israel to resign, with a state representative writing to Florida Gov. Rick Scott to ask him to remove Israel from office.

But there are genuine questions about whether the police could have prevented the shooting even if they had taken the prior tips more seriously.

In hindsight, its easy to say that law enforcement missed a lot of clues and should have been able to intervene. But at the time, reality was a bit messier.

First, for the FBI, there are serious questions about jurisdiction. As Dave Gomez, a former FBI agent, pointed out on Twitter, the red flags raised by tips were largely an issue that the local authorities would have been in charge of handling. In this sense, the FBI still likely failed  since it should have sent the tip to the Miami office, which could have then transmitted the information to the local police.

Putting that aside, lets say the local authorities did get more involved. Its not clear-cut what would happen then. The police could have surveilled Cruz, although they likely wouldve needed a warrant. But they couldnt have just arrested Cruz; they would have needed evidence of a crime to do that.

What happens then depends on the circumstances: Would Cruz have made a credible threat? Would he have shown signs that hes acting on that threat  like buying a gun? Essentially, police would need to look for evidence that a crime was committed or will soon be committed.

Is that enough to arrest somebody? Saying, I want to kill somebody. I buy a gun, Jeffrey Ringel, a former FBI agent who now works for the Soufan Group, a security firm, told Vox. That might be enough.

The tips that police have publicly acknowledged so far may have fallen short of that threshold. But maybe they would have gotten better evidence if they took the tips seriously and thoroughly investigated Cruz.

The challenge for law enforcement is trying to figure out who to take seriously, J.M. Berger, a counterterrorism expert, told me. What we dont have are statistics on how many people talk about committing mass murder, but then dont. Anecdotally, a lot of us have probably had the experience of thinking someone might be dangerous based on what they say, but then the person never acts on it. So the challenge is how do we sort out people who are all talk from people with serious intent.

There are examples of this working: In Southern California, the authorities allegedly overheard a student threatening to open fire on his school, El Camino High School. They discovered multiple guns and ammunition when they searched the students home with a warrant. The student was arrested for making a criminal threat.

Would this kind of approach have worked in Florida, though? Its genuinely hard to say.