The head of the Montana Democratic party on Thursday asked for a congressional ethics investigation into whether Republican representative Greg Gianforte lied to the police and the public when he assaulted a reporter last year.

The request by the partys executive director, Nancy Keenan, comes exactly one year after Guardian reporter Ben Jacobs said Gianforte body slammed him for asking a question the day before Gianforte won a special election for Montanas only US House seat.

Gianforte eventually pleaded guilty to misdemeanor assault and said Jacobs did nothing wrong. But Gianforte initially told police that Jacobs instigated the attack, and his campaign spokesman at the time, Shane Scanlon, released a statement saying the same thing.

Keenan said Thursday that Gianforte has never owned up to lying to the police or the public, and he has never been held accountable for those statements.

Its a matter of character for me, Keenan said in an interview with the Associated Press. If we cant trust him in telling the truth to the cops, then how do we trust him on healthcare policy, how do we trust him on public lands?

Gianfortes false statements are violations of House ethics rules that require him to conduct himself at all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House, according to the complaints Keenan filed with the House Committee on Ethics and the independent Office of Congressional Ethics.

It does not matter that the assault and the statements were made before Gianforte was elected or sworn in, Keenan said.

In one case, a Senate ethics investigation was launched last year against Senator Al Franken, a Democrat from Minnesota, over sexual misconduct allegations from before he was a senator.

Gianforte has perpetuated the lie since he has been in office, including having his communications director, Travis Hall, give a statement to the Associated Press last fall stating that no one was misled about the attack, Keenan said.

Hall declined to comment on Keenans complaint. He cited as the reason a cease and desist letter sent to Gianforte by Jacobs attorney last fall in response to Halls no one was misled comment.

Erin Collins, a spokeswoman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, said in a statement that Keenans complaint is a desperate attempt by Democrats to divert attention from their lackluster lineup of candidates in this years elections.

While the Democratic party attempts to waste taxpayers money on this wild goose chase, congressman Gianforte will continue to work tirelessly in Montanans best interest, Collins said.

The committee and the independent office, which refers ethics matters to the committee, will review the request but are not obligated to launch an investigation simply because the request was made.

Five Democrats are competing for the partys nomination to challenge Gianforte in Novembers election. Keenan shrugged off any suggestion that the complaints are a campaign stunt.

He continues to not tell the truth. Its fundamentally about honesty, she said.

Witnesses told investigators that Gianforte threw Jacobs to the ground and punched him after complaining earlier in the day about duplicitous campaign coverage by the Guardian and BuzzFeed News, according to police documents.

Gianforte told investigators that Jacobs grabbed his wrist and spun, pulling Gianforte on the ground on top of him. Scanlons statement also said Jacobs grabbed Gianforte by the wrist.

Gianforte paid a fine, completed 40 hours of community service and 20 hours of counseling for anger of management.

He also apologized to Jacobs and donated $50,000 to the Committee to Protect Journalists under a settlement with the reporter to avoid a civil lawsuit.