CNNs endless rabid anti-Trump broadcast continued Sunday with State of the Union host Jake Tapper declaring that Senator John McCain is an American hero for stating that he does not want President Trump to attend his funeral when he dies.

I want to change the subject, Tapper stated during the broadcast.

This has been reported in the The New York Times and elsewhere, the plan would be to have Mike Pence be the one to honor Senator McCain in hopefully long, long, long from now event of his demise. the host noted.

This is a real moment for the country where an American hero, somebody beloved in many, many ways is saying I dont want this guy at my funeral. Tapper added referring to the President.

Tappers guest Democratic Rep. Gregory Meeks chimed in with another swipe at Trump.

Senator McCain is known for being honest, just the opposite of Donald Trump, and frank. Meeks stated.

When someone would come up with something negative about President Obama, he corrected them, Meeks continued.

And so, I wouldnt expect anything to be different for Mr. McCain, Sen. McCain now. He is not going to be a hypocrite. He does not believe Donald Trump represents the kind of moral authority the President of the United States should represent for our country. Meeks concluded.

McCain and Trump have been engaged in a personal war for some time.

McCain has said several times that he does not believe Trump has any principles and beliefs.

Hes an individual that unfortunately is not anchored by a set of principles. I think hes a person who takes advantage of situations. McCain told Esquire last year.

The Senator added that while he acknowledges Trump is a successful businessman, I dont think he has the fundamental underpinnings of principles and beliefs.

McCain has called Trump a draft dodger, while Trump previously commented that he does not see the Senator as a war hero just because he was captured.

McCain voted down the repeal of Obamacare last year, raising the ire of Trump, and then gave a speech in which he denounced half-baked, spurious nationalism cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats than solve problems, clearly a reference to Trumps Presidency.

Trump responded in a radio interview, noting Im being very nice. Im being very, very nice. But at some point I fight back, and it wont be pretty.