Investigators working for special counsel Robert Mueller have interviewed one of Donald Trumps closest friends and confidants, California real estate investor Tom Barrack, the Associated Press has learned.

Barrack was interviewed as part of the federal investigation of possible coordination between the Trump campaign and Russia in the 2016 election, according to three people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity. The topics covered in questions from Muellers team were not immediately clear.

One of the people who spoke said the questioning focused entirely on two officials who have been indicted by Mueller: former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his longtime deputy, Rick Gates. Gates agreed to plead guilty to federal conspiracy and false-statement charges in February and began cooperating with investigators. Manafort maintains his innocence on financial charges.

This person said Barrack was interviewed months ago and was asked a few questions about Gates work on Trumps inaugural committee, which Barrack chaired, and but there were no questions about money raised by that committee.

A second person with knowledge of the Barrack interview said the questioning was broader and did include financial matters about the campaign, the transition and Trumps inauguration in January 2017. Barracks spokeswoman, Lisa Baker, declined comment.

Barrack has rare access and insight into Trump going back decades. He played an integral role in the 2016 campaign as a top fundraiser when many Republicans were shunning the upstart candidate. Barrack later directed Trumps inauguration.

Muellers team has asked several other witnesses about the flow of money related to the campaign. Investigators have for months been inquiring about the Trump campaigns finances and compliance with federal election law, according to four people familiar with the matter.

Prosecutors questions have been wide-ranging, these people said, touching on the campaigns data operations, its relationship with data-mining company Cambridge Analytica, payments to Gates and whether there were arrangements that were not disclosed in filings to the Federal Election Commission, they said.

The four people familiar with the investigation spoke on condition of anonymity. The investigators questions about the campaigns finances have come up in interviews dating to early fall while prosecutors were preparing the first indictment against Manafort and Gates.

Barrack, a wealthy real estate investor with close ties to several middle-eastern leaders, met Trump in 1988 when he negotiated the sale of the Plaza Hotel in New York to Trump. Barracks publicist in 2016 described the men as having since solidified a lifelong friendship between themselves and their families.

Barrack employed Gates last year, wrapping up operations on the Presidential Inaugural Committee, before Gates was charged by Mueller.

Barrack spoke glowingly of Trump in a CNBC interview in early 2016. Hes one of the kindest, and actually most humble, friends that Ive had, Barrack said. I have so much respect for him because at this point in his career, wandering into the milieu was not easy, and hes changed the dialogue of the debate.

Barrack also was among the featured speakers at the Republican convention. Days after Trumps victory in November 2016, Barrack told CBS Trump was like an ultimate fighter during the campaign who used whatever tools necessary to convey a really disruptive message. Barrack said America would see a softer, kinder Trump in the White House.

In Fire and Fury, his explosive book on the first year of the Trump presidency, the author Michael Wolff claimed Barrack told a friend Trump was not only crazy, hes stupid. Barrack denied it.

Muellers investigators have interviewed dozens of witnesses. They have also secured the cooperation of former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn and former foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos. But few witnesses have as much insight into the presidents lengthy business career and all facets of his campaign and administration as Barrack.