Donald Trump is nominating the acting veterans affairs secretary, Robert Wilkie, to lead the beleaguered department permanently. The former Pentagon undersecretary for personnel and readiness has led the VA since Trump fired David Shulkin two months ago.

Trump revealed his decision during a prison reform event at the White House, and said the decision was a surprise to Wilkie.

He doesnt know this yet  that were going to be putting his name up for nomination to be secretary of the veterans administration, Trump said.

Trump previously nominated the White House physician Dr Ronny Jackson for the job, but he withdrew last month after a host of allegations surfaced about his personal and professional behaviour.

Wilkie, 56, oversaw a new Pentagon policy aimed at stemming harassment in the military after an online nude-photo sharing scandal rocked the Marine Corps. He was confirmed unanimously as Pentagon undersecretary by the Senate.

As acting VA secretary, Wilkie has sought to rebuild morale at an agency beset with turmoil and rebellion over Trumps push to expand private care. On Thursday, he announced a major $10bn contract with Cerner, to overhaul electronic health records for millions of veterans, a 10-year project that aims to improve mental healthcare and ease access to private providers.

The VA faces problems demanding immediate attention, including a budget shortfall in its private-sector Veterans Choice program. The House is slated to vote on a wide-ranging bill next week that would give veterans more freedom to see doctors outside the VA health system, a major step towards fulfilling Trumps promise to expand private care for veterans.

Wilkie, an air force and navy veteran, had the strong backing of the defense secretary, Jim Mattis, and White House chief of staff, John Kelly, as a skilled manager with defense expertise.

The son of an army artillery commander, he spent his childhood at Fort Bragg and served under George W Bush as an assistant secretary of defense. He was also a senior adviser to Senator Thom Tillis, a North Carolina Republican, before being named a Pentagon undersecretary in 2017.

Jacksons nomination to replace Shulkin surprised veterans groups. He was a career military doctor who lacked significant management experience. While Jackson was well-liked in Washington and drew praise from Obama administration officials he had treated, even many Republicans were skeptical of his ability to lead the VA.

After Jackson withdrew, White House officials said Trump planned to interview and vet his next nominee more thoroughly. Wilkie was among several candidates White House staff interviewed in recent weeks for the post.

The president had indicated he intended to pick someone with a more political background for the role, hoping such a person would better navigate the turbulent confirmation process in a narrowly divided Senate. Wilkie has experience shepherding two defense secretaries through Senate confirmation.