Republicans held on to a deeply conservative Arizona congressional seat on Tuesday night in a special election race to replace an incumbent lawmaker who resigned amid sexual misconduct allegations.

The Associated Press called the race for Republican Debbie Lesko shortly after 8pm local time, when the results from the first batch of early votes showed that she had insurmountable lead over her Democratic opponent, Hiral Tiperneni.

Lesko, a former state senator, led Tiperneni, a doctor and political newcomer, by a margin of 53% to 47% in the race for a Phoenix-area seat that Donald Trump had won by over 20 points. The result, albeit preliminary, is unlikely to calm Republican nerves ahead of a midterm election cycle when the presidents party historically loses seats in Congress.

Mike Noble, a Republican pollster in Arizona, said a race in a solidly conservative district, with older voters who are less likely to cross party lines, should not have been anywhere close to as tight as it was.

Republicans should not be hitting the panic button, they should be slamming it, he said.

A Democrat in the state called it the perfect scenario for the party ahead of the midterms here in November.

Cheers rang out as Lesko celebrated her victory with a toast, clinking champagne glasses with former Arizona Republican governor Jan Brewer. Heres to success! Heres to Republicans winning this year! she said.

Meanwhile, Tiperneni told the crowd at her election night event that the race was too close to call and she would not concede that evening.

The race was being watched as a potential test of Trumps popularity after surprising Democratic special election victories in Republican strongholds like Pennsylvania and Alabama. And the strong performance by the Democrat in a district where the party did not even field a challenger in the last two elections marked yet another troubling sign for the Republican party ahead of the 2018 midterm elections.



On Wednesday morning, Trump congratulated Lesko on her victory and chided the press for its coverage of the race.

Congratulations to Republican Debbie Lesko on her big win in the Special Election for Arizona House seat. Debbie will do a Great Job! Press is so silent, he said on Twitter.

The seat came open in December when conservative lawmaker Trent Franks resigned over reports he offered to pay a female staffer $5m in exchange for carrying his child. Lesko will serve for the duration of his two-year term and seek re-election this fall.



The district, located in the western suburbs of Phoenix, is known for its Sun City retirement community and for permitting golf carts to drive on the streets. The constituency is home to a sizeable senior population that helped keep hardline former sheriff Joe Arpaio in office for more than two decades.

Early voting numbers eased jittery Republicans. Before the polls opened on Tuesday more than 70% of Arizonans had already cast their ballots, half of which came from registered Republicans, and the median age of voters was 67.

Republicans in Arizona were confident the district would not flip but the national party leaders and groups had no intention of leaving anything to chance after last months shock Democratic victory in south-western Pennsylvania.

The Republican National Committee, National Republican Campaign Committee (NRCC) and the Congressional Leadership Fund collectively spent nearly $1m to defend the reliably conservative seat. National Democrats, notably, stayed out of the race, but used the election as an opportunity to strengthen the party in the district and generate enthusiasm among liberals statewide.

Debbie ran a smart campaign and focused in on the issues that voters cared about, like having more take-home pay, fewer regulations and a secure border, Ryan said. Her victory proves that Republicans have a positive record to run on this fall, and we need to spend the next seven months aggressively selling our message to the American people.

During the campaign, Lesko pledged to join Freedom Caucus, a bloc of fiscally and socially conservative lawmakers that is often a thorn in the side of GOP leadership. A major plank of Leskos campaign was to support the president, especially on immigration, which is top concern among conservative voters in Arizona. She supports building a wall along the southern US border and increasing immigration enforcement.

This fall, Arizona will play host to one of the marquee Senate races of the cycle for the seat being vacated by retiring Republican senator Jeff Flake. The state will hold a gubernatorial election and a contested congressional race. 



After a loss in Arizonas eight congressional district, Democrats still must win 23 seats to take back the House of Representatives.

Tiperneni, who was part of the wave of Democratic women inspired to run for office since Trump was elected, entered the race to challenge Franks. After he resigned, Democrats rallied around her campaign. She mounted a vigorous challenge and outraised Lesko in what was a clear demonstration of Democrats eagerness to compete in races they would typically not contest.

Tiperneni ended the evening by announcing her intention to challenge Lesko again for the seat. Still waiting for results from todays vote, but whatever happens tonight or tomorrow, were not giving up, she said on Twitter. Regardless of the outcome, were taking this to November.