Our Revolution, the progressive group formed after Bernie Sanderss presidential run in 2016, just endorsed a Democrat who found herself the subject of a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee attack ahead of Tuesdays Texas primary.

The DCCCs ridiculous attacks on Laura Moser are why Democrats nationally have lost over 1,100 seats, said Our Revolution board member Jim Hightower in a statement announcing the endorsement. Laura is a rising progressive advocate that the workaday people of Texas desperately need.

Moser, the founder of the activist text messaging platform Daily Action, is one of seven Democratic candidates in the running for Congress in Texass Seventh Congressional District, which lies in the suburbs of Houston. The top two winners will head to a runoff election, and the winner of that race will ultimately compete against incumbent Republican Rep. John Culberson in November.

The DCCC took a square shot at Moser last week, publishing an opposition research memo on its website against Moser.

Democratic voters need to hear that Laura Moser is not going to change Washington, the memo stated. She is a Washington insider, who begrudgingly moved to Houston to run for Congress. In fact, she wrote in the Washingtonian magazine, Id rather have my teeth pulled out without anesthesia than live in Texas.

Its rare for the DCCC to get involved in primaries, but the national Democratic Party desperately wants to flip the Seventh Congressional District, which has been held by Republicans since the 1960s, but also voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016.

The DCCC views Moser as too risky to run against the Republican incumbent in the general election, but they also recognize she is someone who has enough of a following and money to possibly get into the runoff. Hence, the opposition memo getting out during the primary.

When theres a truly disqualified general election candidate that would eliminate our ability to flip a district blue, thats a time when it becomes necessary to get involved in these primaries, DCCC spokesperson Meredith Kelly told Vox. This district is too important to let it go without trying.

One of the core pieces of evidence against Moser appears to be a 2014 article in the Washingtonian about DC housing costs titled, Yeah DC is Pricey  Get Over It Already! that ran under the heading Rant.

In the article, Moser wrote, On my pathetic writers salary, I could live large in Paris, Texas, where my grandparents plantation-style house recently sold for $129,000. Oh, but wait  my income would be a fraction of what it is here and Id have very few opportunities to increase it. (Plus Id sooner have my teeth pulled out without anesthesia, but thats a story for another day.) (Vox obtained the original article. You can read it below for full context.)

Moser appears to have come around to living in Texas (she says she moved to Houston last year), but that wasnt the only thing the DCCC highlighted. Citing Federal Election Commission records, it also accused Moser of paying her husbands Washington, DC political consulting firm over $50,000 from campaign contributions; meaning 1 of every 6 dollars raised has gone to her husbands DC company.

Mosers husband is Arun Chaudhary, a partner at the progressive consulting firm Revolution Messaging. A recent piece by the Intercepts Lee Fang, Ryan Grim, and David Dayen noted that financial disclosures show Revolution Messaging had a financial relationship to Mosers activist group, Daily Action.

Moser has called out the DCCC in the past. She penned an article in Vogue in August criticizing DCCC Chair Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) for his vow not to put a litmus test to Democratic congressional candidates, even when it came to social issues like abortion rights.

Perhaps Texans, especially the Democrats among us, stay at home because they dont have any clear sense of what we stand for, Moser wrote in August. I have one idea of how to get more Democratic women to polling stations: Stand up for them.

The fact that the DCCC published an opposition research memo on a Democrat in the first place raised eyebrows in the Lone Star State.

Abby Livingston, the DC bureau chief for the Texas Tribune and a veteran Texas campaign reporter, described the DCCC memo as the organization going nuclear.

In three cycles of covering these races, I aint seen anything like this, Livingston tweeted.

When Livingston reached out to the DCCC for further comment, committee spokesperson Kelly went even further in a statement.

Unfortunately, Laura Mosers outright disgust for life in Texas disqualifies her as a general election candidate, and would rob voters of their opportunity to flip Texas 7th in November, Kelly said, referring again to the Washingtonian article.

As she fielded DCCC attacks calling her a DC elite, Moser shot back in kind.

Were used to tough talk here in Texas, but its disappointing to hear it from Washington operatives trying to tell Texans what to do, she said in a statement to the Texas Tribune. These kind of tactics are why people hate politics. The days where party bosses picked the candidates in their smoke filled rooms are over. DC needs to let Houston vote.

Some on the left are echoing Moser, criticizing the DCCC for going all in against one candidate, especially in such a crowded, energized Democratic field.

And though DCCC operatives have stuck by their choice to release the opposition memo, its clear Moser is also playing it to her advantage by characterizing it as an attack by the Democratic establishment on a progressive candidate.

Mosers campaign said shes raised over $86,700 since the memo was released, and the endorsement by Our Revolution may bolster her position.

This latest flap between Moser and the DCCC shines a spotlight on an already very high-profile and crowded Democratic primary in Texas.

There is an incredibly large and competitive field of Democratic candidates vying to replace Culberson, who has been in office since 2001. Besides Moser, other candidates in the primary include lawyer Lizzie Pannill Fletcher, cancer researcher Jason Westin, director of a Houston nonprofit Alex Triantaphyllis, Houstons senior assistant attorney James Cargas, University of Houston development official Joshua Butler, and former congressional staffer Ivan Sanchez.

Triantaphyllis and Fletcher are two other candidates who have risen to the top of the pack. Both are slightly more moderate in some of their stances compared to Moser. The Democratic Super PAC Emilys List is backing Fletcher.

To give you some context, Democrats havent been in power in the Seventh District since 1966, according to the Houston Chronicles Kevin Diaz. That was the year voters elected George H.W. Bush to the seat (he later became the 41st president), and the seat has remained red ever since.

But the newly crowded slate of primary candidates is indicative of a new surge of Democratic energy in a deeply red state. Even though President Donald Trump easily won Texas in 2016, Hillary Clinton carried the Seventh District.

With such an out-of-reach district looking suddenly gettable, the national party wants to be competitive there. But its unclear if a divide-and-conquer strategy will get them there.

Below is the full Washingtonian article from November 2014.