Three years ago on Saturday, on 16 June 2015, at Trump Tower in Manhattan, Donald Trump descended a gold-plated escalator and announced his run for president. He flashed a thumbs up to a fawning crowd, some of whom had reportedly been paid $50 to be there.

Trump laid out his vision for the country: a screed the media largely wrote off as the implausible musings of a man whose only chance of living on Pennsylvania Avenue would come from the Trump hotel  which was then a building site.

Trump promised to be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, then accused Mexico of sending to the US drug traffickers, criminals and rapists. He promised to build a wall along the southern border and to end Barack Obamas shielding from deportation of millions of undocumented migrants.

Three years later, on immigration at least, President Trump is working double-time to make that vision reality.

Heres a look back at some of the news coverage from the day Trump launched his campaign. Some of it now seems prescient. Some seems comically wrong.

The business mogul, who has never held public office, enters an extremely crowded field of Republican presidential hopefuls, now numbering a dozen major candidates. And it remains to be seen how he will distinguish himself from his rivals on policy issues, in part because hes steered clear of many policy specifics: last month, he raised eyebrows when he said he had a foolproof plan to defeat the Islamic State terrorist group, but refused to reveal details because I dont want the enemy to know what Im doing.

The report included a mocking comment from the Democratic National Committee that has not aged particularly well:

Donald J Trump, the garrulous real estate developer whose name has adorned apartment buildings, hotels, Trump-brand neckties and Trump-brand steaks, announced on Tuesday his entry into the 2016 presidential race, brandishing his wealth and fame as chief qualifications in an improbable quest for the Republican nomination. It seems a remote prospect that Republicans, stung in 2012 by the caricature of their nominee, Mitt Romney, as a pampered and politically tone-deaf financier, would rebound by nominating a real estate magnate who has published books with titles such as, Think Like a Billionaire and Midas Touch: Why Some Entrepreneurs Get Rich  And Why Most Dont.



His entrance presents complications for rival candidates and the Republican party. He is likely to qualify for the first two Republican National Committee-sanctioned presidential debates, which Fox News and CNN have limited to candidates who place in the top 10 in national polling ... A Trump campaign also complicates NBCs plans for the Celebrity Apprentice. NBC has determined that having Mr Trump appear in a weekly entertainment program could require it to provide a similar outlet to other candidates, an NBC official said.

Trump showed Tuesday that he wont shy away from the out-of-reach luxury and opulence that makes up his day-to-day lifestyle ... the spectators got a flavor for the type of candidate Trump plans to become  one who shoots from the hip and doesnt care for a script  and the ideas hell promote. Trump called for everything from new infrastructure (Were becoming a third world country!) to erecting a massive fence on the border with Mexico  which he said he would have Mexico pay for  to the need for a thorough plan to defeat Isis.