A Republican congressman from Texas who toured a tent-like shelter for hundreds of minors who entered the country illegally said on Saturday the facility is a byproduct of a flawed immigration strategy.

US representative Will Hurd said the shelter near the Tornillo port of entry in far West Texas will house about 360 boys who are 16 and 17. The teens began arriving on Friday, the same day Hurd toured the shelter, he said, noting that the boys were being moved from other shelters to make way for younger immigrant children taken into custody at the border.

Federal authorities are separating children from their parents as families arrive at the border. Hurd said the treatment of minors should not be used as a threatening means to prevent others from entering the US.

This is a symptom of a flawed strategy and in the land of the free and home of the brave we shouldnt use kids as deterrence, said Hurd, who represents a vast border district that includes the port of entry.

The US Department of Health and Human Services announced earlier in the week that it intended to open the shelter.

The port is located about 40 miles south-east of El Paso in an area that is mostly desert and where temperatures routinely approach 100F (37C). The tent-like structures that comprise the shelter have air conditioning.

Federal figures show nearly 2,000 children were separated from adults from 19 April to 31 May as part of Donald Trumps immigration crackdown.

The administrations decision to separate children, combined with the flow of unaccompanied minors attempting to cross the border illegally, has prompted a surge in the number of children in US shelters.

How do these kids know where their parents are going and how do the parents know where their children went? Hurd asked.

A smarter immigration strategy would address root problems such as economic instability and a breakdown in the rule of law in Central America, he said, while noting the need to use advanced technology and manpower to guard the border.

Building a 30ft-high wall is a fourth-century solution to a 21st-century problem, he said, referring to Trumps call to build a wall along every mile of border with Mexico.