Donald Trump really, really likes to be praised.

Recall that extremely weird Cabinet meeting last June in which Trump went around the table and allowed everyone to thank him for being so awesome and smart and focused. Words like honor and privilege and blessing were tossed about countless times. Trump appears to thrive on this kind of flattery.

Vice similarly reported last fall that Trump receives a folder each day (twice a day, actually) littered with glowing tweets, fawning articles, clips of positive cable news segments, and occasionally pictures of himself on TV looking ... presidential. If you want to last in this White House, youve got to lavish the president with adulation.

The result, increasingly, is a White House filled with sycophants. In the past two weeks alone, Trump has pushed out his chief economic adviser, Gary Cohn, and his secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, in part because they were insufficiently sycophantic. And hes brought in Larry Kudlow and Mike Pompeo to replace them because hes comfortable with them and because theyre likely to toe the line in a way Cohn and Tillerson did not.

How unusual is this in a White House? Not every administration has to be a Lincolnesque team of rivals, but is it dangerous to have a president who so strongly desires approval? I reached out to presidential historian Robert Dallek, the author of Franklin D. Roosevelt: A Political Life, for answers to these questions.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

President Trump likes to be surrounded by people who agree with him and who are willing to shower him with flattery. Is that necessarily a bad thing for presidents?

I think it impoverishes a presidency. My best example is FDR, who surrounded himself with people who argued a lot. He wanted to have them arguing because it put him in a position to decide what needed to be done. He knew how important it was to be confronted by arguments he didnt want to hear.

Its deadly to a presidency to be surrounded by sycophants who are going to be emphasizing the need to stroke the presidents ego, to make him feel as if hes always right and ingenious. There are no easy decisions to be made in the White House; everything is difficult and complex and consequential. If ever there was a need for honesty and hard truths, its in the White House.

Someone once said that history is argument without end, but so is politics and policymaking. But Trump is someone who is so thin-skinned and who thrives on the need for approval and adulation that its got to be hard to maintain an intellectually honest climate around him.

If ever there was a need for honesty and hard truths, its in the White House

Thats probably my biggest worry. If the people around the president are motivated by a desire to please him above all else, how could that not pervert the whole incentive structure?

Its pretty clear that Trumps judgment is flawed, but everyones judgment is flawed, which is why you need smart, fearless people around him. He vowed to hire the best people and to have the greatest Cabinet weve ever seen, and yet look at how many of them have been forced out in such a short time.

Its unprecedented to have a man in office who never reached 50 percent approval during his first year. That hasnt happened since we started polling in 1935. Surely some of that has to do with the fact that hes alienating people outside his base by not reaching out in any meaningful way, and thats exactly what youd expect when the president is only exposing himself to people who reinforce his view of reality.

To be fair, shouldnt we expect presidents to hire people who agree with them, who share their agenda?

Presidents want to be surrounded by people theyre comfortable with, but that doesnt mean you see eye to eye on everything. Think of John F. Kennedy and the Cuban missile crisis. There was a lot of debate about what should be done, and those people werent cozying up to Kennedy to win his approval and affection; they were in the midst of a possibly world-changing crisis, and they were trying to figure what was best. And Kennedy wanted desperately to be challenged. Thats what you need in a president.

Trump is uninformed, doesnt read, doesnt seem to have much intellectual curiosity, and seems to trust his instincts more than anything else

We saw this week that Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and replaced him with Mike Pompeo, a man who seems much more willing to toe the line for Trump. This is becoming a trend with Trump and probably why the turnover rate you mentioned a second ago is so extraordinarily high.

I think you have to go all the way back to Warren G. Harding in 1921 to find a president as unqualified to hold the office as Trump is. Harding was not a very bright guy, and even though he had been lieutenant governor of Ohio and became a senator, he was terribly shallow and unimpressive. He got elected, in part, because he looked like a president and because there was a lot of discontent at the time. But he had no idea what he was doing, and yet he was convinced that he did.

Trump is a reasonable heir to someone like Harding because Trump is uninformed, doesnt read, doesnt seem to have much intellectual curiosity, and seems to trust his instincts more than anything else. Like Harding, he thinks he can solve everything by himself, and thats not a good way to keep the best and smartest team around him.

It also means were likely to get people in high-level positions who are insufficiently qualified and who dont have much experience, but because they make Trump happy or comfortable, theyre able to survive and thrive. That, unfortunately, is where we are today.