What happened at Donald Trumps inauguration 18 months ago, and why does special counsel Robert Mueller appear to be so interested in it?

Last week, ABC Newss Matthew Mosk and John Santucci reported that several wealthy Russians were granted unusual access to Trump inauguration parties back in January 2017  and that Mueller was seeking to find out why.

This isnt the first time weve heard of Muellers interest in the inauguration. Back in April, CNN reported that the special counsel was investigating whether wealthy Russians illegally funneled cash donations directly or indirectly into Donald Trumps presidential campaign and inauguration  and had even questioned some oligarchs directly.

These reports have broken in the months since former Trump aide Rick Gates agreed to a plea deal with Muellers team in exchange for his cooperation. That may not be a coincidence  Gates was heavily involved in planning the inauguration, with a Yahoo News report in 2016 calling him the shadow chair of the event.

Yet beyond just Russia, there have long been serious questions about the money behind Trumps inauguration  and where, exactly, it went. Trumps inaugural committee raised a truly astonishing $106.7 million, double the previous record set by Barack Obamas 2009 inaugural. But what they did with it isnt so clear.

In a report for ProPublica and WNYC by Ilya Marritz earlier this year, the chair of George W. Bushs second inauguration, Greg Jenkins, said he was baffled. They had a third of the staff and a quarter of the events and they raise at least twice as much as we did, he said. So theres the obvious question: Where did it go? I dont know.

Much like a typical Trump Organization project, then, his inauguration combined eye-popping sums of money and opulence with questions of financial mismanagement, corruption, and shady foreign influence. Heres a guide to the many scandals surrounding it.

After Donald Trump unexpectedly won the 2016 presidential election, he was tasked with setting up an inauguration that would be worthy of his name and opulent reputation. The swearing-in event itself and the surrounding security and logistics are paid for the federal government. But for all of the big parties and events before and after the swearing-in  the concert on the National Mall beforehand, dinners and events for elite supporters, and the balls on inauguration night  Trump would have to find the cash for those himself.

So hed need money  a lot of money. Its not unusual for presidents to raise money for this purpose. Most recently, Barack Obama raised about $53 million for his first inauguration, and $43 million for his second. Trump decided to follow suit. Rather than fund the inauguration himself, the wealthiest president-elect ever decided to follow his predecessors lead and raise the cash from billionaires, wealthy financiers, and corporations.

So a week after the election, Trump named a murderers row of uber-rich Republicans as finance vice chairs for the event. They included casino billionaires Sheldon Adelson and Steve Wynn (the latter of whom was later accused of sexually abusing employees), defense contractor Elliott Broidy (later involved in hush money payments to a Playboy model), and Anthony Scaramucci (later White House communications director for 10 days before resigning over an obscene interview with the New Yorker).

The man in charge of it all, as chair of the inaugural committee, was Tom Barrack. A billionaire real estate investor whos been a close friend of Trump for decades, Barracks business interests have recently been concentrated in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Qatar. (The Washington Posts Michael Kranish and the New York Timess David Kirkpatrick have both written excellent profiles of him.) His goal, he said, was for the inauguration to have soft sensuality and a poetic cadence.

To help with the planning and fundraising, Barrack turned to a Trump campaign aide: Rick Gates, the longtime right-hand man to Paul Manafort. (Barrack had known Manafort since the 1970s and helped convince Trump to bring him on to the campaign.)

Even at the time, the choice raised eyebrows, since Manafort had been ousted from the campaign after scandal-laden stories about his work for pro-Russian politicians in Ukraine. But, according to a November 2016 report by Michael Isikoff of Yahoo News, Gates became instrumental in fundraising and planning. Isikoff quoted a source calling Gates the shadow chair of the inauguration and Barracks chief deputy.

In the end, the inauguration crowd wasnt exactly the largest in history  but the inaugural fundraising certainly was. Barrack, Gates, and the team raked in over $106 million, an astonishing sum that doubled the previous record (set by Obama in 2009).

The more you gave, the more exclusive events to which you got access. Among other perks, it took $1,000,000 to get you into the Leadership Luncheon at Trumps hotel, $500,000 for a dinner with Vice President-elect Mike Pence, and $250,000 for a candlelight dinner at Union Station with the Trumps and Pences, according to a document obtained by the Center for Public Integritys Carrie Levine.

You can read through the full donor list at OpenSecrets.org, but among those willing to fork over such sums were:

And then there were those donors with major ties to Russia and other foreign countries, who have reportedly caught Muellers interest.

The inauguration caught law enforcements attention back while it was happening. According to a Washington Post report, counterintelligence officials at the FBI were concerned by an unusual presence of politically connected Russians in DC during the event  including some of the exact people who had surfaced in the agencys investigation of the Trump campaigns ties to Russia.

But in the last few months specifically, much of Muellers teams questioning of witnesses has reportedly focused on matters related to the inauguration and possible foreign money.

Despite all that, the exact reason why Mueller has become so focused on the inauguration remains elusive, and he hasnt shed light on it publicly. There are several possibilities, though.

What, if anything, all of this adds up to isnt yet clear, but its clear enough that Mueller has had a lot to chew on here.

Sometime around March of this year, Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg flew in to a New York-area airport on a private plane  and was met there by Robert Muellers investigators, who questioned him and searched his electronic devices.

Vekselberg is the main owner and president of the Renova Group, a massive Russian conglomerate with aluminum and oil interests, and is one of the richest people in Russia. He didnt directly give any money to Trumps inauguration. But his cousin, Andrew Intrater, an American citizen who runs a US company tied to Vekselbergs company, donated $250,000. Intrater had also kicked in $35,000 to the Trump Victory Committee during the campaign, despite having no previous history as a major political donor.

Vekselberg and Intrater attended Trumps inauguration together, and at the January 19 candlelight dinner, they were seated with Trumps lawyer, Michael Cohen, according to ABC News. Later that year, that company run by Intrater paid Cohens shell company, Essential Consultants LLC, $500,000  for, they claimed, real estate advice.

Another hefty inaugural donation, of $1 million, came from Leonard Blavatnik, who runs a company called Access Industries. Blavatnik was on the guest list for the January 19 candlelight dinner too, as well as a more exclusive chairmans global dinner with top Trump allies and foreign dignitaries, per ABC.

Blavatnik is a Soviet-born, UK-based billionaire who is a US citizen. He also spent years partnered with Vekselberg in Russias aluminum industry, according to a 2014 New Yorker profile. Together, they built the second-largest aluminum company in Russia  and eventually became part of the largest, by merging with Oleg Deripaskas Rusal. (Deripaska also appears to be a player in the collusion investigation  he employed Paul Manafort, and Manafort tried to get in touch with him during 2016.)

Other donations and guests, too, have raised eyebrows. Alexander Mashkevitch, a Kazakh mining billionaire, was on the guest list for the candlelight dinner, per ABC and happens to have been in the Seychelles around the same time as Erik Prince, Erin Banco has reported for the Intercept.

And Natalia Veselnitskaya and Rinat Akhmetshin, who attended Don Jrs infamous Trump Tower meeting, were in town too  they attended an inauguration night party thrown by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), whos widely viewed as the biggest supporter of Putins regime in Congress.

No one mentioned here has been charged with any wrongdoing in Muellers probe. And its at least possible that many of the donations here are garden-variety influence peddling, rather than indicative of some larger and more sinister scheme. But if the Trump-Russia investigation is pursuing the time-tested strategy of following the money, this is clearly a good place to start.

Beyond the many questions about money collected by the inaugural committee, there have long been many questions about money going out of it.

In Ilya Marritzs great piece on this topic for WNYC and ProPublica, several people involved in previous inaugurations were quoted expressing puzzlement over how Trumps team could have possibly spent over $100 million for what they got.

Unlike a campaign, the inaugural committee isnt legally required to disclose very much about its spending. In its nonprofit tax form, the committee is required to break down its expenses in broad categories and to list its five biggest vendors. But it is not required to explain every line item.

In any case, according to the tax form, about half the money  over $50 million  went to just two vendors. $25.8 million went to WIS Media Partners, an event production firm started by a now-former adviser to Melania Trump. Another $25 million went to Hargrove Inc. for event production. What these firms did with those massive sums of cash is unknown.

That leaves about $50 million or so remaining. From that, about $10 million in total went to another three vendors, $4.6 million was paid out as salaries, and $5 million was left over and given out as grants. But where tens of millions more went remains a mystery, beyond the broadest of categories given on the disclosure forms.

For now, whether this was sloppy financial mismanagement or something shadier, is unclear. But if there is anyone who might know where much of the money went, it is Rick Gates. And whatever he knows, Robert Mueller now knows too.