President Donald Trumps decision to replace Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin marks the fourth time a high-profile official has departed the executive branch in the past four weeks.

Gary Cohn gave up after Trump went ahead with steel and aluminum tariffs. Then Rex Tillerson got axed. Last week, Trump replaced National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster. Shulkin was just the latest top official to exit a White House that perpetually seems to teeter on the verge of a personnel purge. The threat of an ouster looms over most high-profile employees  if they havent been dismissed, or quit, already.

This is, after all, an administration run by a man made famous by the tagline youre fired.

Theres no indication Shulkin will be the last. Trump, after more than a year in office, has reportedly grown more confident in his presidential abilities. Thats led Trump, who prizes loyalty, to start weeding out the Cabinet members who try to tamp down his instincts.

I am really at a point where we are getting close to having the Cabinet and other things that I want, Trump said after Tillersons firing. Trumps friend and Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy said Sunday on ABCs This Week that Trump is expecting to make one or two major changes to his government very soon.

Its probably a foolish gamble to predict what the mercurial president will do next. But heres a guide to which departure is rumored to be imminent  and who seems to be safe, at least for now.

Why he might be next: Earlier in March, Trump was rumored to be firing Carson at the same time as Shulkin and McMaster. That didnt happen, but Shulkin and McMaster are now out, leaving Carson standing alone on the least likely to succeed list.

The cause of Carsons woes is a $31,000 mahogany dining set. Carson had come under fire for spending a lot of money on furniture for one of his executive rooms at HUD. He originally denied he had anything to do with the purchase. But a watchdog group sued to release emails, which revealed that Carson and his wife, Candy Carson, had a hand in selecting the overpriced furniture. A HUD whistleblower had also come forward saying Candy Carson had pressured her to find a workaround to the $5,000 limit for the secretarys furnishings.

The lavish purchase came as HUD faced crippling budget cuts to the tune of $6 billion. Trump officials also see Carson as an ineffective secretary, according to a report in Politico, which, considering he had no housing policy or government experience before taking the job, adds up.

Why hes perpetually on the rumors list: Recusing yourself is hard to do. But Sessions did step away from the Russia investigation, leaving his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, in charge. Rosenstein appointed and now oversees the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of the Trump campaign.

And almost since the beginning of Muellers investigation, its seemed like Sessions is in trouble. Trump has lambasted his beleaguered attorney general, accusing him of insufficient loyalty and publicly humiliating him in an apparent attempt to force him out. Firing Sessions would allow Trump to appoint a new attorney general  one who might not have to recuse himself from the Russia investigation.

But it would also stoke fears that Trump would fire Mueller to a fever pitch, and the confirmation battle for any Sessions replacement would likely be grueling.

Why he might be next: Chiefs of staff, who needs em? Trump has reportedly been frustrated with Kelly for some time now, but speculation of his firing ramped up following the Rob Porter scandal and questions about security clearance in the White House.

Kelly has survived so far, but Trump bristles under the order Kelly has imposed on his White House. According to his former campaign chief Corey Lewandowski, Trump thinks he might be fine without a chief of staff  just himself in charge. But the difference with this president is he is the decision-maker and he loves to have all of the information brought to him, Lewandowski said on NBCs Meet the Press on Sunday. I see him as the hub with a number of spokes coming out.

Why he might be next: Rosenstein isnt in the Cabinet. But hes very important in one way: He oversees the Mueller investigation, and he appointed the special counsel in the wake of FBI Director James Comeys firing.

Trump has repeatedly called the Russia investigation a hoax, and his attacks have intensified against Mueller in recent weeks. Right-wing Trump supporters have tried to cast Rosenstein as a career, deep state bureaucrat out to take down the president, even though Trump appointed (and the Senate confirmed) him to his current role.

A Rosenstein ouster could change the course of the Mueller investigation, and could amount to an attempt to shut it down. Especially if Sessions leaves with Rosenstein, America might have a full-blown constitutional crisis on its hands.

The (possible) firing offenses: Trump had another 60 Minutes interview to distract him this week, but DeVos did herself no favors with her own sit-down earlier this month. She struggled to answer basic questions about public schools in her home state of Michigan and about sexual assault on college campuses. That same week, in separate media appearances, she stumbled over questions about Trumps school safety plan  even though shes tasked with heading up the committee. She is already one of Trumps most divisive Cabinet members, and the 60 Minutes interview reinvigorated criticism that shes ill-equipped for her job.

CNN reported that the White House was alarmed by DeVoss performance, but even amid persistent rumors of a Cabinet shake-up, her name wasnt nearly as prominent as Shulkins, Carsons, or McMasters.

The (possible) firing offenses: Zinkes spending habits have also drawn scrutiny, including $139,000 to replace six historical doors in his office. (He now claims hes cut the bill in half, to $75,000.) His taxpayer-funded travel has also raised eyebrows, including a more than $12,000 chartered flight from his home in Montana to Las Vegas, where he delivered a motivational speech to the Las Vegas Golden Knights, which doesnt exactly sound like government business. He also reportedly spent more than $53,000 on three helicopter trips last summer, including a $6,250 trip from Yorktown, Pennsylvania, to Washington, DC, which got him back in time to go horseback riding with Vice President Mike Pence.

Trump was also reportedly angry at Zinke in January over a decision to exempt the coast of Florida from offshore oil and gas leases.

The (possible) firing offenses: Pruitt has also proven himself to be a bit freewheeling with taxpayers money. He installed a $43,000 soundproof phone booth in his office, which was only supposed to cost $25,000. Pruitt has also splurged on fancy security measures, including $2,500 for biometric locks and $3,000 for a listening device security sweep.

Unprecedented security concerns are also why Pruitt has been forced to take pricey charter and first-class flights, or so his office claims. According to the Washington Post, Pruitt spent more than $90,000 of taxpayer money to take chartered and first-class flights in early June, including a nearly $8,000 round-trip flight to Rome and a $1,600 shuttle flight from New York to DC. He has since deigned to fly coach.

Pruitt has also been lobbying hard for a swankier gig  attorney general, should Trump fire Sessions. But administration officials reportedly wanted Pruitt to back off. Last week, according to the Washington Post, Kelly called Pruitt to say Trump was happy with his work at the EPA.

Trump brought three Cabinet members (plus Vice President Mike Pence) to his signing ceremony for the omnibus spending bill. Trump might be having second thoughts about the bill itself, but these officials have been largely absent from stories of future Cabinet shuffles: Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen.

Mattis reportedly had a suicide pact with McMaster to quit if Trump were to fire either of them  but hes still here. (Hes also tied to a massive corporate fraud scandal  but no one wants to bring it up because Mattis might be the last adult in the room left.) Nielsen has backed Trump on the border wall. Ross is helping lead the push for tariffs (and defended them with a soup can).

Amid the turmoil of the Trump administration in March, Trump made a point to tweet on March 14 that five incredible Cabinet secretaries would be testifying on Capitol Hill:

Besides Ross, the five included Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta, who have flown under the radar since they were confirmed; and Energy Secretary Rick Perry, who was reportedly considered to replace Shulkin at the VA.

The fifth was Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao, who has kept a low profile and tried to sell Trumps infrastructure proposal and agenda. (Shes used pricey government planes a few times when flying commercial would throw off her schedule  but thats pretty tame compared to the other travel scandals.)

Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, is also running the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and his name has been floated as a possible chief of staff should Kelly leave, so Trump seems to like having him around.

Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has been notably absent from reports of Cabinet drama, and, as the Washington Post put it, switches easily between diplomat and loyal soldier. Director of the White House National Trade Council Peter Navarro has been defending the tariffs on television. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats has kept a low profile. And Linda McMahon, who created spectacle for a living in the wrestling business, has stayed out of the limelight while apparently staying on Trumps good side at the Small Business Administration.

Correction: This post has updated the title of Peter Navarro.