Last July, only six months into the Trump administrations first term, the head of the Office of Government Ethics resigned in protest.

Walter Shaub didnt cite a specific reason for leaving, but he was clearly exasperated by an administration that has been plagued by scandals, investigations, and conflicts of interest. The current situation has made it clear that the ethics program needs to be stronger than it is, Shaub told NPR at the time. He then joined a nonprofit organization to push for reform from outside government.

Things have gotten worse since he departed.

In addition to special counsel Robert Muellers ongoing Russia investigation, the presidents son-in-law, Jared Kushner, is embroiled in several scandals, as are a number of Trumps Cabinet members. Trump has refused to divest himself of his private business interests, and hes now mired in a potential cover-up scandal involving Stormy Daniels and $130,000 of hush money, which might have violated campaign finance laws.

But there are good reasons to think that many of Trumps supporters wont care about any of this. This, at least, is the argument that Jan-Werner Muller, a political theorist at Princeton, makes in his 2016 book What is Populism?

According to Muller, populists like Trump succeed by pushing a form of tribal politics that elevates an in-group (the real people) over an out-group (the others). As long as ethical breaches help the in-group, or are believed to do so, they simply wont matter to committed supporters.

I reached out to Muller to talk about how populists govern, why theyre able to get away with abuses of power, and why protests against them often backfire.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Youve argued that cronyism and corruption arent a problem for certain kinds of populist leaders. Why is that?

This isnt an empirical finding, so I cant prove this is the case, but the general idea is that in many populist regimes, what seems so obviously like corruption is, in fact, a strength for these leaders. Its easy to look at abuses of power and assume that it will hurt the person committing the abuses, but its not that simple.

What might look like corruption or cronyism to neutral observers is seen by the supporters of populists as doing the right thing for the right people, the real people. This is why the tribal appeal of populism is so crucial. Populist leaders thrive on distinctions between us and them, between the people and the establishment.

So when populist or authoritarian leaders like Hungarys Viktor Orban or Polands Andrzej Duda or Turkeys Recep Tayyip Erdogan seem to be violating norms and imposing antidemocratic measures, their supporters interpret these moves as necessary for their survival. It might be illegal or unusual or extreme, but as long as its being done for the in-group, supporters arent bothered by it.

What other explanations might there be?

One possibility is that supporters of populists simply dont see a lot of these things as acts of corruption. Its just their guy or their leader doing what he has to do in a broken system. Another possibility is that because we live in a highly fragmented media landscape, people simply dont know whats going on. So its not that people are condoning corruption; its that scandals never really make it into the news that people actually watch or read.

I think people need to be careful about how they choose to exercise their outrage

How do you see this playing out in the context of the US today?

In the case of Trump, a lot of supporters probably feel like they were warned beforehand. Trump told them that this was a special interests government, that the system was rigged and corrupt and that he knew how to manage it. He can say, Look, I told you that I was a norm breaker, so you shouldnt be surprised that Im breaking norms.

As long as they feel like hes doing their bidding, and as long as he can point to the bigger economic picture and say that things are going well, he probably thinks he can get away with it.

Im just speculating here  we cant say for sure whats going on or why a significant number of people arent upset by Trumps excesses  but I think its worth considering these possibilities.

Does the recent history of populists in Europe and South America and elsewhere show that these leaders dont pay a political price for their corruption?

So far, its not clear that any of the contemporary populists that weve mentioned here have paid a significant price.

I think there are likely a number of factors contributing to this. Sometimes the arguments you hear from populists are pretty explicit. They say, Look, everyone steals, and we steal as well. But we dont steal as much as the other guys, and we promise to deliver better results. This is basically the language thats being used by Orban in Hungary right now.

This doesnt mean that nothing can be done about this, or that this sort of antidemocratic behavior can go unchecked forever. But I think it does show pretty clearly that we shouldnt assume that exposing corruption or shady dealings is automatically going to translate into these political actors paying a price at the polls.

We have to make clear distinctions between normal politics and actions we consider out of bounds

There are a lot of concerns right now about corruption and shady dealings in the Trump White House. Its alarming, and very much in line with what were seeing elsewhere in the world. How should citizens respond to this?

I think people need to be careful about how they choose to exercise their outrage. On the one hand, there are objections to specific policies, like the abolition of the Affordable Care Act, but this is the normal stuff of politics. You might hate that Trump is trying to kill ACA, but this isnt some horribly authoritarian measure; its just the sort of thing youd expect to happen with a Republican in power.

We have to make clear distinctions between normal politics and actions we consider out of bounds. Which is to say, we have to identify red lines and basic constitutional boundaries and be very clear about violations of these things. The danger in protesting everything with the same amount of outrage is that it actually helps populists because it allows them to say to their supporters, You see, they hate everything we do because they hate us.

Again, populists are learning from each other in ways we dont always see. Its very important to protest, but its also important to know that populists are going incorporate protests into their own culture war narrative. Its why Steve Bannon has said that the resistance is our friend  he knows how useful it can be. This doesnt mean people shouldnt protest, but it does mean that they have to think a couple steps ahead in terms of how theyre going to make the protest work for them and not for the people theyre protesting.