After the February 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, at least six public opinion polls suggested that Americans were becoming more receptive to gun control. The shifts were significant  anywhere from 7 to 18 points in a matter of months, depending on the specific question and pollster.

Unlike other mass shootings, Parkland has remained in the news because of survivors persistent activism and organizing. So in the wake of the March for Our Lives, its worth asking: Is the shift sticking? Has the Parkland shooting, and the remarkable activism undertaken by Parkland high schoolers in its aftermath, meaningfully and permanently changed the debate on gun control?

Past school shootings have usually had transient effects on public opinion, if any. Kevin Wozniak, a sociologist at UMass Boston, reviewed polls after the Newtown school shooting in 2012 and found that the event coincided with a temporary spike in support for gun control, followed by a leveling off and return to pre-mass shooting opinion by the end of 2013.

Recent polls suggest the bump in support for gun control after the Parkland shooting might be fading, at least in part. But Americans are also more likely than they were before the shooting to say that guns are the most important problem in America.

Its still early going, and it would be irresponsible to draw too definite a conclusion. Its also hard to say definitely that Parkland, rather than another factor, caused shifts in public opinion that have occurred. This is real life, not a randomized experiment.

But the activism comes after years of increasing support for gun control. Even if the Parkland shooting itself didnt cause or accelerate this shift, it could mark the culmination of a long-term shift in public opinion toward being more supportive of gun regulations.

Polls found in the aftermath of the Parkland shooting that Americans were concerned about mass shootings and more supportive of the government regulating guns than in the past.

In some cases, gun control polled better after Parkland than it did in the aftermath of the Las Vegas mass shooting in October 2017, which killed 58 people, the deadliest mass shooting in post-World War II American history.

Two polls comparing attitudes before the Parkland shooting to those in March, a month or so later, with no intervening polling in the immediate aftermath of the shooting, show that attitudes are still, overall, more positive toward gun control than they were previously. These polls, by their design, cant tell us if support increased in the shootings immediate aftermath before fading. But they speak to the net trend over a longer time horizon.

That being said, polls conducted in both the immediate aftermath and weeks or months following Parkland present some preliminary evidence that the gains for gun control advocates are fading somewhat:

Perhaps the most important number of all the above is the finding that gun violence has shot up in importance, and its now the second-most-cited problem in America by the public. That suggests that, regardless of overall public opinion on the issue, its salience has grown markedly. That could have electoral consequences, or change the kind of constituents that lawmakers hear from if it reflects a greater mobilization on the part of pro-gun control forces.

Taking a step back from the specific question of what the Parkland students achieved, its clear from the polling data that support for increased gun control remains high and has steadily increased in recent years. The above Gallup chart is perhaps the clearest evidence, but other polls back this up:

There are, as always, caveats. The share of Americans supporting a ban on all guns hovers in the 8 to 10 percent range, making it a pretty fringe position. Support for a handgun ban is a little more than 20 percent and has fallen over the years. CBS found that the share of people supporting arming teachers, while still a minority, grew from 38 percent to 44 percent between October 2015 and February 2018.

But in a mirror image of the findings on a gun ban, support for universal background checks often polls in excess of 90 percent. It rarely shows much movement, just because support for it is already near universal. The NPR poll found that more than 80 percent of respondents supported raising the legal gun-purchasing age, banning bump stocks, requiring universal background checks, and adding people with mental illness to the background check system (a move that has concerned some patient advocacy groups).

The public at large is pretty clear and consistent in backing new restrictions on guns. Theyre typically somewhat mild, and polling on banning large categories of weapons like semiautomatic rifles is more mixed (though some recent polling still shows majorities support that). And there is definitely an intensity gap whereby gun rights supporters make the issue a greater priority.

But the Parkland movement might change that dynamic, at least slightly, by making gun issues higher salience for the country as a whole. And regardless of intensity, the public as a whole is remarkably united behind at least modest measures to restrict gun sales.