Donald Trump has branded the former FBI director James Comey a slimeball during another Twitter tirade. The tweets were a reaction to unfavourable excerpts released in advance of Comeys book, A Higher Loyalty, in which Comey likens the president to a mob boss and dismisses the forest fire that is the Trump presidency. After Trumps tweets, Merriam-Webster dictionary reported a 60,000% spike in searches for the definition of slimeball, which it defines as a morally repulsive or odious person.

Just like the mob, Trump likes to dole out nicknames, especially to his opponents. Its a trick he may have learned from professional wrestling and World Wrestling Entertainment, which inducted him into its Hall of Fame in 2013. Its wrestlers go by names such as Stone Cold Steve Austin or The Undertaker  distinguishing for its predominantly young audience the heroes from the villains.

So who else has Trump rebranded?

Throughout the 2016 election campaign Trump would often refer to Hillary Clinton as Crooked Hillary, usually in reference to her use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state in the Obama White House.

Marco Rubio earned his moniker after poking fun at Trumps small hands during the 2016 Republican presidential campaign.



Bernie Sanders joined the list of nicknames when Trump rounded on the senator during the Democrats presidential race. Sanders was doing well against Clinton at the time, when Trump tweeted : I dont want to hit Crazy Bernie Sanders too hard yet because I love watching what he is doing to Crooked Hillary. His time will come!



After Michael Wolffs book Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House was published, Trump slammed the former White House strategist Steve Bannon in another early-morning rant on Twitter  and Sloppy Steve was born.

Trump nicknamed North Korea leader Kim Jong-un a maniac and a whack job before settling on rocket man at the 2017 United Nations General Assembly.

After Senator Al Franken was accused of sexually harassing Los Angeles radio host Leeann Tweeden in 2006, Trump  who doesnt seem terribly concerned about appearing hypocritical  lambasted the senator and compared him to Frankenstein, only he spelled it wrong.