Multiple companies are cutting ties with the National Rifle Association in the wake of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida that left 17 people dead. Several corporations, ranging from Delta to Hertz to MetLife, have said they will end discount agreements with the NRA or otherwise sever ties with the nations largest gun advocacy group. The NRA, like the AARP or AAA, promotes discounts in order to entice potential members to join. Its member benefits page advertises discounts on insurance, car rentals, travel, and even a wine club. Many of the companies offering such discounts and other NRA-related benefits, products, or services have split.

The NRA has lately remained defiant in its unequivocal pro-gun stance, despite growing public pressure for lawmakers, regulators, and, increasingly, corporate America to do something on guns. It released a video this week blaming the mainstream media for mass shootings in America, and Wayne LaPierre, head of the NRA, told an audience at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) on Thursday that the post-Parkland gun control push is the result of socialism. Their solution is to make you, all of you, less free, he said. At CPAC, Dana Loesch, the NRAs national spokeswoman, said that many in legacy media love mass shootings. CNNs Alisyn Camerota hit back at Loeschs assertion on Friday. Youre wrong on every single level, she said. Stephen Crockett Jr. at the Root called Loeschs comments deranged.

The Parkland shooting  and the NRAs absurd, insensitive response to it  has increased pressure from consumers and activists on companies to cut ties. The hashtag #BoycottNRA has begun to pop up on Twitter.

Apple, Amazon, and Google are also under pressure to drop NRAtv, the lobbying groups streaming channel. They have yet to act. A number of companies are sticking by the NRA, at least for now, including FedEx, which has been under activist pressure to end its discount for the NRA for over a year.

Heres a list of which companies, so far, have cut ties with the NRA: