When Senator Tammy Duckworth has her second child this spring, she will make history as the first senator to give birth in office.



When she announced her pregnancy, Duckworth received an outpouring of well wishes and sparked a national conversation about how women balance high-powered careers and motherhood. Some viewed the news as a sign of progress for female politicians. While for others it was reminder of the slow pace of change  and of the gender gap that remains in Congress.

Duckworth, who was surprised by the response, tends to agree with the latter.

I feel like the Senate is actually in the 19th century as opposed to the 21st somehow and thats really unfortunate, said the Democrat from Illinois, during an interview in her office.

Its a reflection of a real need for more women in leadership across our country, whether its legislatively or in boardrooms or the military.

The senator, a veteran of the Iraq war, has spent a storied career in public service. Among the first women to fly combat missions in Iraq, she lost both legs when her helicopter was hit by a rocket-propelled grenade in 2004. In 2012, she became the first disabled woman elected to Congress; the first member of Congress born in Thailand; and the first Asian American woman elected to Congress in Illinois.

She had her first daughter, Abigail, in 2014, while serving in the House. That made her one of only 10 lawmakers to give birth while serving in Congress.

The attention around her second pregnancy has given her a platform from which to champion policies that help working mothers, including an ambitious plan for paid family leave.

We seem to have this view that paid family leave is some sort of touchy-feely womens only policy, Duckworth said. This isnt just an entitlement. Its really an economic imperative for our nation.

She added: I think this is where were behind other developed nations and economic powers around the world. Theyve figured out that there is an economic benefit to taking family leave.



Among 41 developed countries, the US is the only one that does not require any paid leave for new parents, according to the the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. US law allows workers to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave without losing their jobs for a new baby or if they or a family member falls ill.

In the Senate, Duckworth has joined Democrats in support of a bill that would provide up to 12 weeks of leave for family and medical purposes with partial pay. Introduced by New York senator Kirsten Gillibrand and known as the Family Act, the bill would establish a nationwide insurance program to pay for the leave, funded by employer and employee payroll contributions.

Paid family leave, long a Democratic cause, was made a priority by Ivanka Trump, Donald Trumps daughter and adviser, who has touted it as her signature domestic issue. But Duckworth said her advocacy has fallen short.

Shes really not pushed for it, she said. She said this is what she wants to work on, but Ive not seen anything concrete in the administrations proposals.

The White House did not reply to a request for comment. Trump is reportedly working with Republican senator Marco Rubio on paid family leave that would allow employees to use their social security retirement benefits to take parental leave.

Duckworth said she was open to working with Trump and Republicans but her baseline was a true family leave plan.

Motherhood, she said, has allowed her to bring an underrepresented perspective to Congress. Shuttling between Washington and Illinois after the birth of her first daughter, she realized there was no designated place to express breastmilk at airports. Often she would be directed to a bathroom stall.

We would never ask our fellow travelers to eat their sandwiches in a bathroom but there I was, expressing milk for my child on a toilet seat, she wrote in Cosmopolitan last year.

Last year, she re-introduced the Friendly Airports for Mothers Act, which would require medium and large airports to provide lactation rooms, accessible for people with disabilities, for mothers to express breastmilk. The measure passed in committee as part of a broader bill and is awaiting consideration by the full Senate.

In the House, Duckworth introduced legislation to expand paid parental leave for members of the military. That bill would allow service members to take 12 weeks of paid leave regardless of their gender if they are a parent of a newborn, adopted or foster child.

Duckworth, who will be 50 when she gives birth, is forcing a reckoning in the tradition-bound upper-chamber.



While Duckworth offers her own staff 12 weeks of paid parental leave after birth, adoption or fostering of a child, there is no policy for senators. Duckworth plans to take 12 weeks of paid leave, but is still working with Senate leadership on the technicalities of how to do so.

The Senate does not allow votes by proxy, which means Duckworth could be summoned while on leave to take critical votes. But, unlike in the House, children are not allowed to accompany members on the floor. Meanwhile, if she needs to breastfeed during a vote, her best option would likely be the womens restroom off the Senate floor.

Duckworth hopes that, like her predecessors who successfully lobbied for the installation of that womens restroom in 1993, she will help the nearly 230-year-old institution adapt to the times.

Something as simple as ... not allowing children on the floor, she said, means that I cant do what female legislators have done in other countries, where theyre breastfeeding, sitting at their desks waiting for a vote.