Dirty Jobs Mike Rowe believes that many Americans are dissatisfied with their lives because they no longer appreciate the intrinsic value of work.

As The Daily Callers Amber Athey reports, in a pre-recorded interview with Fox News Tucker Carlson that aired Friday, Rowe accused the American media of convincing people that they will be happier if they choose to work less.

Look, the best-selling books right now in the self-help section and in general claim to have the solution for how you can work less, Rowe explained.

Most of the commercials on TV ask a tacit question, you know, how could you be happier? And the answer, of course, is retire a little sooner or work 35 instead of 40 hours.

However, Rowe argued, the act of doing work brings value and purpose to peoples lives, making them happier overall.

What you said is the business of working has an underlying inherent value to it, Rowe told The Daily Caller co-founder.

If there is one enduring lesson from Dirty Jobs, its the fact that those people as a group are having a better time and were more connected to their work than the vast majority of people I know who make great white collar livings, he asserted.

Its just an inconvenient truth, if you will pardon the bromide, but its out there and there is a lot of hope in it.

And this anti-work rhetoric begins at an early age, as Rowe previously concluded, millions of reasonable people  Republicans and Democrats alike  are worried that our universities are doing a poor job of preparing students for the real world. Theyre worried about activist professors, safe spaces, the rising cost of tuition, a growing contempt for history, and a simmering disregard of the first amendment.

These people are concerned that our universities  once beacons of free speech  now pander to a relatively small percentage of students who cant tolerate any political opinion that challenges their own.

And theyre concerned  deeply concerned  that millions of good jobs are currently vacant that dont require a four-year degree, or any of the catastrophic debt that comes with it.