: President Trump tweets that McCabes firing is a great day for the hard working men and women of The FBI... and  democracy, then lashes out at sanctimonious former FBI Director Comeys lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI indicating that his actions made McCabe look like a choirboy.

Perhaps this means Trump will lay off the constant trolling of Sessions for a while?

As we detailed earlier, after a long day of what seemed like the swamp protecting one of their dirtiest creatures, Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, just over 24 hours before he was set to retire and claim his full pension benefits.

McCabe turns 50 on Sunday  the earliest he would have been eligible for his full retirement benefits.

Sessions noted that both the Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz as well as the FBIs disciplinary office had found that Mr. McCabe had made an unauthorized disclosure to the news media and lacked candor  including under oath  on multiple occasions.

So, McCabe was involved in leaks and he lied under oath.

I have terminated the employment of Andrew McCabe effective immediately, said Sessions, who said he based his decision on the findings.

While the move will probably cost McCabe a significant portion of his retirement benefits, he could challenge it in court.

Former FBI officials tell CNN that McCabe could also lose out on future health care coverage in his retirement,  but the most significant damage to a separated FBI employee is: loss of lifetime medical benefits for self and family, tweeted CNN law enforcement analyst James A. Gagliano, a retired FBI supervisory special agent.

On Thursday he spent almost four hours at the DOJ to beg for his full retirement.

The FBIs OPR then reviewed the report and underlying documents and issued a disciplinary proposal recommending the dismissal of Mr. McCabe. Both the OIG and FBI OPR reports concluded that Mr. McCabe had made an unauthorized disclosure to the news media and lacked candor  including under oath  on multiple occasions. The FBI expects every employee to adhere to the highest standards of honesty, integrity, and accountability. As the OPR proposal stated, all FBI employees know that lacking candor under oath results in dismissal and that our integrity is our brand. Pursuant to Department Order 1202, and based on the report of the Inspector General, the findings of the FBI Office of Professional Responsibility, and the recommendation of the Departments senior career official, I have terminated the employment of Andrew McCabe effective immediately.

saying that his firing, along with negative comments by President Trump were meant to undermine Special Counsel Robert Muellers investigation, reported the New York Times.

The idea that I was dishonest is just wrong, said McCabe, adding, This is part of an effort to discredit me as a witness.

While McCabes firing is directly related to the disclosure of sensitive information to the media about the Clinton email investigation, the former Deputy Director took a leave of absence in January amid a heated controversy over the FBIs conduct surrounding the 2016 election.

In December, The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee has discovered that edits made to former FBI Director James Comeys statement exonerating Hillary Clinton for transmitting classified info over an unsecured, private email server went far beyond what was previously known  as special agents operating under McCabe changed various language which effectively decriminalized Clintons behavior.

McCabes team also conducted a counterintelligence operation to investigate the Trump campaign, in which they used an unverified dossier and were not forthright with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) over its political origins, in violation of FBI policy.

As revelations of FBI misconduct spiraled out of control last year, President Trump noted that McCabe was racing the clock to retire with full benefits.

On Thursday, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said We do think that it is well documented that he has had some very troubling behavior and by most accounts a bad actor.

While background conversations with reporters are commonplace in Washington, notes the Washington Post, McCabes authorizing such a talk was viewed as inappropriate because the matter being discussed was an ongoing criminal investigation.

One wonders how long before McCabe writes his multi-million-dollar tell-all book... or when he will start his new job? We hear the offers are pouring in...