Matt Phillips scored his first international goal as Scotland earned their first win of Alex McLeish's second spell in charge against Hungary.

James Forrest missed two good chances and captain Charlie Mulgrew's penalty was saved after Ryan Fraser was felled.

But Phillips tapped home Fraser's cross three minutes into the second half.

Scotland keeper Allan McGregor twice denied Roland Varga and then Adam Szalai after a mistake from Mulgrew as the visitors held on in Budapest.

Victory followed Friday's lacklustre 1-0 home defeat by Costa Rica at Hampden Park.

Scotland's next friendlies will come on an end-of-season tour against Peru, on 29 May, and Mexico, on 2 June, as they continue to prepare for the Nations League starting in September.

McLeish made seven changes from the line-up that lost to Costa Rica, with Celtic defender Jack Hendry making his debut and Bournemouth winger Fraser getting a first start.

Scotland started with real tempo, closing down players quickly - exactly what they did not do in their last outing.

The condition of the pitch was problematic though. It was too patchy, causing players to lose control at vital moments.

Forrest was first to threaten when he gathered a lay-off from Phillips but fired off target.

The home side responded with Gergo Lovrencsics sending a 30-yard effort wide of McGregor's post.

Hungary captain Balazs Dzsudzsak then fired a free-kick towards the top corner which McGregor did well to palm away.

Despite those chances, Scotland looked largely comfortable against a side in transition. Hungary lacked confidence and have limited ability, as recent results demonstrate.

Forrest had a weak effort saved after robbing a defender and John McGinn had a strike blocked after clever play from Callum McGregor.

A gift of a chance arrived late in the first half when Fraser was rashly upended by Laszlo Kleinheisler right on the edge of the area.

Mulgrew thumped the penalty to Gulacsi's left but the goalkeeper produced a great save and fans must have wondered if it would be another frustrating evening for McLeish's side.

However, Scotland responded to that setback with a goal of genuine quality.

Fraser delivered a skidding cross from the right, it deflected into Phillips' path and the West Brom winger, deployed as a central striker, confidently stroked the ball home.

Phillips might have had another but elected to pass when the shot was on from a counter-attack.

The goal lifted Scotland's confidence and from that point the visitors were largely in control.

Having missed from the spot, Mulgrew's evening almost got worse when he gifted possession to Adam Szalai, allowing the towering striker a free run at McGregor.

The 36-year-old Hull keeper blocked brilliantly and then watched Szalai's flick creep narrowly past moments later.

It was a moment that might have undermined Scotland's evening and against better opponents would probably have been punished.

On a more positive note for the defence, Scott McKenna looked strong once again and Hendry impressed. Suddenly, Scotland appear to have depth at centre-half, a problem area for previous manager Gordon Strachan.

McLeish will take many positives from this win along with one or two learning opportunities to work on. It was a valuable exercise.