How America's largest local TV owner turned its news anchors into soldiers in Trump's war on the media: https://t.co/iLVtKRQycL pic.twitter.com/dMdSGellH3

A chilling video featuring local news anchors of stations owned by the conservative television empire Sinclair Broadcast Group across the country reciting a script warning of biased and false news  word for word  went viral over the weekend.

The video has again stirred concerns about the reach of Sinclair, which owns or operates nearly 200 television stations across the country, and about its pro-Trump bias disguised in what many unassuming viewers may believe to be run-of-the-mill local news.

The video, by Timothy Burke, the video director at the sports website Deadspin, stitched together a video of local anchors from various Sinclair stations reciting the exact same script of a promotional campaign for the network. CNNs Brian Stelter in early March reported that such a promotion, described internally as an anchor delivered journalistic responsibility message, was in the pipelines.

After the anchors introduce themselves and express their commitment to covering their respective communities, they go on to say they are concerned about the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country. The sharing of biased and false news has become all too common on social media.

The script, as transcribed by ThinkProgress, says that some media outlets publish fake stories that just arent true, without checking facts first, and warns that some members of the media use their platforms to push their own personal bias and agenda to control what people think. This is extremely dangerous to a democracy, the anchors say.

They ask viewers to reach out if they believe their own reporting is unfair and declare a commitment to remaining fair, balanced, and factual.

The clip went viral, racking up more than 6 million views on Twitter over the weekend.

Peter Chernin, a media investor and once the president of Rupert Murdochs News Corporation, in a tweet called the video insidious. Others called it terrifying, extremely biased, and pro-Trump propaganda.

Of course, not everyone was so outraged. President Donald Trump on Monday tweeted in support of Sinclair, saying it is far superior to networks such as CNN and NBC.

Sinclair Broadcast Group has a conservative, pro-Trump bent, and it is quickly becoming one of the most powerful players in mainstream media. It owns or operations about 200 stations already and is in the process of buying Tribune Media Company for $3.9 billion. If the deal is approved, that would add about 40 more stations to its ranks. (Sinclair has said it will sell off a handful of stations if the deal is approved.)

Still, the broadcast company is relatively unknown, and many viewers arent aware who owns the local news station theyre watching  or their potential motives.

Sinclair requires its stations to air segment must-runs, such as daily updates on terrorism-related news and a package in 2016 that said voters shouldnt support Hillary Clinton because the Democratic Party was, historically, pro-slavery. It also mandated that local stations air commentary segments from former Trump aide Boris Epshteyn. Trumps son-in-law Jared Kushner during the 2016 campaign struck a deal with Sinclair to air exclusive interviews with Trump.

The weekends viral video brings a new layer to the ongoing Sinclair saga, and it raises a fresh set of questions about the independence afforded to Sinclair-owned networks and reporters and what viewers do and do not realize theyre seeing.

Scott Livingston, senior vice president of news for Sinclair, told the Baltimore Sun in an email that the stories the script is referencing are unsubstantiated ones, such as a false report during the 2016 campaign that the pope had endorsed Trump. Some other false stories, like the fake Pizzagate story, can result in dangerous consequences, he said. We are focused on fact-based reporting. Thats our commitment to our communities. Thats the goal of these announcements: to reiterate our commitment to reporting facts in a pursuit of truth. We consider it our honor and privilege to deliver the news each night. We seek the truth and strive to be fair.

But Sinclairs actions speak louder than its emailed words.