The Environmental Protection Agency is rolling back one of the biggest, most impactful environmental regulations of the Obama era, giving a boost to Americas big three automakers while undercutting a smaller manufacturer with a cult following.

EPA officials announced Monday afternoon that they intend to weaken greenhouse gas and fuel economy standards for cars and trucks as a favor to automakers. [I]n light of recent data, the current standards are not appropriate and should be revised, the agency said in a statement.

The current rules were designed to limit carbon emissions and pollution from transportation, which has overtaken the power sector to become Americas biggest climate problem and remains the largest source of air pollution. The standards would avert 570 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, equivalent to stopping 140 typical coal-fired power plants for a year, the Union of Concerned Scientists has estimated.

Theyd save consumers money too. According to Margo Oge, former head of the EPAs Office of Transportation and Air Quality, the fuel savings alone through 2025 would add up to $1.7 trillion.

While some car companies say they support the current rules, trade groups like the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers have been clamoring to lower the goalposts for fuel economy and tailpipe emissions since President Trump took office, arguing that the current regulations are too stringent and expensive to meet.

Relaxing the rules would let companies like Chrysler and GM, which scrape the bottom of average fuel economy rankings, breathe easier.

But it also pulls out the rug from under carmakers that top the efficiency list and are ahead of schedule to meet the higher standards. Many of these companies with very fuel-efficient lineups earn revenue from selling emissions and efficiency credits to other manufacturers that arent able to comply with the stringent rules.

And the company that perhaps earns more from this side market than any other is Elon Musks electric carmaker, Tesla.

That means the weaker regulations will simultaneously help the dirtiest, hurt the cleanest, and derail years of tenuous progress in reducing environmental harm from a growing source of pollution.

First, some brief history: After the 2008 financial crash and the ensuing economic crisis, Chrysler and General Motors were on the ropes and came to Congress with their hands out looking for a bailout. They received cheap loans and financial assistance under Presidents Bush and Obama totaling almost $80 billion, with a net cost to taxpayers of $9.3 billion.

A big reason US car companies were foundering was that gas prices suddenly shot up and US automakers, who for years were making bigger, thirstier cars, were suddenly facing a cash-crunched, fuel-abstemious market.

So the Obama administration told US car companies they needed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and improve their efficiency to better compete with foreign automakers, marking the biggest increase in fuel economy regulations in 30 years.

This manifested as a combination of rules across the EPA, the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, and the California Air Resources Board finalized in 2012.

The key target is that automakers have to reduce their average greenhouse gas emissions from the passenger cars and light trucks they sell to 163 grams per mile by 2025. A subtle point here is the EPA estimated meeting this goal with just fuel efficiency improvements means car companies would have to achieve an average economy of 54.5 miles per gallon across their offerings, assuming more cars than trucks are sold.

However, a car company can reduce its greenhouse gas emissions with tactics like limiting coolant leaks and by buying credits, while a shift to larger vehicles like SUVs changes the weighting of the average fuel economy target. Based on current trends and projections, the EPA estimates that the current rules will require a real-world average fuel economy of 36 miles per gallon by 2025, up from 24.7 miles per gallon in 2016.

To make sure the rules are working, the EPA is required to conduct a midterm evaluation to make sure manufacturers are doing their best and to see whether the rules are too strict.

The Obama administration reported in January 2017, shortly before Trump took office, that everything was hunky-dory. Scott Pruitt said it wasnt.

The Obama Administrations determination was wrong, the EPA administrator said in a press release. Obamas EPA cut the Midterm Evaluation process short with politically charged expediency, made assumptions about the standards that didnt comport with reality, and set the standards too high.

But the document the EPA links to as background for the rollback announcement reports that the ruling from former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy was based on an extensive technical record, created over 8 years of research, review of several hundred published reports, hundreds of stakeholder meetings, and multiple opportunities for the public to provide input.

Relaxing these tailpipe emissions standards also tees up a fight with California, which has a waiver under the Clean Air Act to set its own stricter standards for pollution and efficiency. Californias waiver is still being reexamined by EPA under Administrator Pruitts leadership, according to the press release.

Since Tesla only makes electric cars, it can sell a variety of state and federal credits to other automakers who are having a harder time meeting these goals. They come in three mutually exclusive categories: zero-emissions vehicle credits, greenhouse gas emissions credits, and fuel economy credits.

They can leverage the same car in multiple categories, said Benjamin Leard, a research fellow at Resources for the Future.

Other carmakers like Honda and Toyota also sell credits since they are beating the current standards.

According to Teslas latest 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company has seen more and more money coming in from selling these credits. Revenue from the sale of regulatory credits totaled $360.3 million, $302.3 million and $168.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, according to the filing.

The expectation was that as emissions limits ratchet down, conventional car companies would have to spend more on credits to comply with the rules or invest in cleaning up their cars. But with the emissions and fuel economy standards holding steady, the demand for new credits would shrink.

I would certainly expect the prices of those credits to go down with the rollback of the standards, Leard said.

Fuel economy standards should be strengthened, not weakened, Tesla spokeswoman Gina Antonini told Vox. This is overwhelmingly the opinion of the scientific community.

The weakened standards are part of a wave of bad news for Tesla, which was reeling from a drop in its stock price stemming from a backlog of orders for its new Model 3 sedan and lower-than-expected demand. This comes on top of emerging quality control issues in its cars and allegations of poor working conditions in its factories.