Fox Newss singular ability to speak to Donald Trump is well-documented. Look no further than the presidents Sunday morning immigrant rant on Twitter, apparently inspired by a Fox News segment.

But according to recent reports, Fox personalities arent just talking to Trump through his television screen  on multiple occasions, hes called them up during White House meetings to ask their opinions on policy.

Trumps penchant for calling up people to chat is well-known. Chris Ruddy, CEO of the conservative site Newsmax, is often on his list. MSNBCs Joe Scarborough has talked about Trumps calls. Trump even called Roseanne Barr about her shows ratings.

Trump also reportedly chats with Fox Businesss Lou Dobbs, one of his favored hosts, on a semi-regular basis. But the Daily Beasts Maxwell Tani and Asawin Suebsaeng report that Trumps reliance on Dobbs goes way beyond one-on-one phone calls and jubilant Twitter shoutouts:

As such, Dobbs doesnt get to just interview and socialize with the president; he is involved in some of the administrations more sensitive discussions. During the first year of the Trump era, the president has patched in Dobbs via speakerphone to multiple meetings in the Oval Office so that he could offer his two cents, according to three sources familiar with these conversations. Trump will ask Dobbs for his opinion before and after his senior aides or Cabinet members have spoken. Occasionally, he will cut off an official so the Fox Business host can jump in.

According to the Daily Beast, Dobbs has been patched into high-level meetings on trade and tax policy that featured some of Trumps top advisers. The relationship between the TV host and the president is particularly notable because of Dobbss nationalistic views and hardline stances on immigration  meaning as long as hes whispering in Trumps ear, or weighing in on policy, its likely Trumps positions will similarly fall in line.

Dobbs isnt the only Fox personality put on speaker during high-level meetings. Trump also phoned frequent Fox News contributor Pete Hegseth to talk about Veterans Affairs legislation while in a meeting with his then-Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin, Axios reported in earlier in March.

Hegseth  whom Trump has also called privately for advice  was reportedly in the running to replace Shulkin, though Trump decided to go with his personal White House physician instead.

It all sounds like a bizarre, modern-day version of Trump idol Andrew Jacksons so-called kitchen cabinet, the term the press used for Jacksons coterie of informal advisers after his regular Cabinet imploded amid scandal and infighting  except this one is made up of cable news talking heads. (Even Jackson sought counsel from some newspaper guys who wrote very nice things about him.)

Its all part of the feedback loop formed by Trump and Fox News. Trump hears or responds to a segment on Fox News, absorbs it, and makes pronouncements that have serious policy implications. Foxs programs recycle that back, often without comment or question, reporting Trumps statements as truth and fact.

Increasingly, Foxs personalities have the power to push their own agendas, as the Daily Beasts reporting reveals. Supporters of Trumps nationalistic agenda told the Daily Beast they hope Dobbs exerts more influence over Trump in his second term, especially on immigration issues.

Beyond that, cable pundits are moving from the kitchen cabinet to the actual Cabinet: In March, Trump tapped Larry Kudlow, a CNBC commentator, to serve as the head of the National Economic Council and plucked John Bolton, former US ambassador to the United Nations who is on the fringes of conservative foreign policy, from Fox News to serve as national security adviser.