Five Manchester City players have been named in the Professional Footballers' Association Players' team of the year.

Midfielders Kevin de Bruyne and David Silva, defenders Nicolas Otamendi and Kyle Walker and striker Sergio Aguero represent the Premier League champions.

Prolific Liverpool forward Mohamed Salah and Tottenham striker Harry Kane, who have scored 30 and 26 league goals respectively, are in the side.

Manchester United's sole player in the team is goalkeeper David de Gea.

Did you know? De Gea has appeared in the PFA's team of the year four times in the past five years. He also has the highest save percentage, stopping 80% of shots faced, which ranks third in Europe's top five leagues (England, France, Italy, Germany and Spain).

Did you know? Walker has provided six assists in the Premier League in 2017/18, his best ever return in a top-flight season.

Did you know? Otamendi has made 2665 successful passes in the Premier League this season, at least 300 more than any other player.

Did you know? Vertonghen has featured in 13 of Tottenham's 14 Premier League games where they have kept a clean sheet this season; more than any other outfield player for Spurs.

Did you know? Alonso has scored more goals than any other defender in the Premier League this season (6).

Did you know? The 32-year-old Spain midfielder has created 14 goals in all competitions and his pass completion rate of 89% is the highest of any attack-minded player in the Premier League.

Did you know? De Bruyne has provided more assists than any other player in the Premier League this season. He's the first player to ever deliver 15+ in consecutive campaigns in the competition. He has created more chances (102) than any other player in the Premier League this season and has also scored 11 goals.

Did you know? Eriksen has created 35 goalscoring opportunities for Harry Kane in the Premier League this season - the most from one player to another in 2017-18.

Did you know? Kane is one of three players to score 25+ Premier League goals in three or more successive seasons (also, Alan Shearer and Thierry Henry). He is attempting to become the first player since former Arsenal striker Henry to finish as the Premier League's top scorer for a third consecutive season

Did you know? Salah is the first Premier League player to scored 40+ goals in all competitions since Cristiano Ronaldo in 2007-08. The 25-year-old's goals and assists have earned the Reds 15 points - more than any other Premier League player. He has been involved in 51% of his side's 75 league goals, again more than any other player.

Did you know? This is the first time that Aguero has ever been included in the PFA Team of the Season, in his seventh season in England.