Donald Trump attacked the New York Times on Sunday, after the newspaper said his oldest son and other aides met in August 2016 with a representative of two Gulf states offering to help the Trump campaign.

Things are really getting ridiculous, the president tweeted. The Failing and Crooked (but not as Crooked as Hillary Clinton) @nytimes has done a long & boring story indicating that the Worlds most expensive Witch Hunt has found nothing on Russia & me so now they are looking at the rest of the World!

The Times reported that Donald Trump Jr met George Nader, a purported emissary for Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates; Joel Zamel, an Israeli specialist in social media manipulation; and Erik Prince, the founder of the private security firm formerly known as Blackwater.

The meeting at Trump Tower in Manhattan was convened primarily to offer help to the Trump team, the paper said.

The offer, the Times said, met with Trump Jrs approval, and Nader later met with Donald Trumps son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner and Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser who is now cooperating with special counsel Robert Muellers investigation into Russian election interference and links between Trump aides and Moscow.

A lawyer for Trump Jr, Alan Futerfas, confirmed the meeting but said Trump Jr was not interested and that was the end of it.

Marc Mukasey, a lawyer for Zamel, told the Times his client had provided full cooperation to the government. He also said: Joel Zamel offered nothing to the Trump campaign, received nothing from the Trump campaign, delivered nothing to the Trump campaign and was not solicited by, or asked to do anything for, the Trump campaign.

Mueller has been looking into another meeting, in January 2017 in the Seychelles, that Nader and Prince held with Abu Dhabis crown prince, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, and Kirill Dmitriev, a Russian banker with ties to the Kremlin. 



The Times quoted a lawyer for Nader as saying he had fully cooperated with the special counsels investigation and will continue to do so. A senior official in Saudi Arabia, the Times said, denied Nader had ever been authorised to speak for the government.

The paper said Prince declined to comment. The White House did not comment.

On Sunday, Trumps multi-tweet salvo continued: Now that the Witch Hunt has given up on Russia and is looking at the rest of the World, they should easily be able to take it into the Mid-Term Elections where they can put some hurt on the Republican Party. Dont worry about Dems FISA Abuse, missing Emails or Fraudulent Dossier!

In another tweet, Trump called the Russia investigation a $20,000,000 Witch Hunt, composed of 13 Angry and Heavily Conflicted Democrats and two people who have worked for Obama for 8 years, STOP!

Mueller is a Republican who was appointed FBI director by a Republican president, George W Bush, and made special counsel by a Republican deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein. Some of Muellers investigators are registered Democrats or have donated to Democratic campaigns.

The Virginia senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, told CNNs State of the Union: If the Times story is true we now have a second or maybe a third nation that was trying to lean in to this campaign. I dont understand what the president doesnt get about the law that says if you have a foreign nation interfere with in American election it is illegal.

What we do know is that Russia, a foreign adversarial nation, massively intervened in our elections ... and they were doing it to help Trump and hurt Clinton.

Warner refused to be drawn on whether he believed Russian was assisted by the Trump campaign. That is the end-point question, he said. But we do know that the Trump campaign welcomed dirt on Clinton.

Trump Jr was the central figure in a now infamous June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower with Russians including a Kremlin-linked lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya. Told the Russians had incriminating information about Clinton, Trump Jr responded: If its what you say, I love it.

Steve Bannon, formerly Donald Trumps chief strategist, told the author Michael Wolff he thought that meeting was treasonous.

Warner said the Mueller investigation was now a year in, 14 indictments, including the presidents campaign manager [Paul Manafort], and five guilty pleas and a lot of questions still need to be answered.

On NBCs Meet The Press, former Trump adviser Roger Stone said he was prepared to be charged by Mueller.

I can guarantee you they have found no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion, nor trafficking of allegedly hacked emails with WikiLeaks, Stone said. But, he added, it was not inconceivable that investigators may seek to conjure up some extraneous crime, pertaining to my business, or maybe not even pertaining to the 2016 election. So I am prepared, should that be the case.

Several media outlets named an FBI source who allegedly informed the bureau about the Trump campaign. Trump has described the story as bigger than Watergate. Warner said attempts to reveal the identity of the informant were irresponsible and potentially illegal.

Publicly outing a source risks not only their life but the lives of every American, he wrote on Twitter.

Speaking on CBSs Face the Nation, Warner spoke of an ongoing assault by the president and his allies on the FBI and department of justice, which leads to an area where people get to decide which laws they want to follow and which they dont. That, he said, was dangerous, dangerous territory.

Trump did not take heed. He tweeted: I hereby demand, and will do so officially tomorrow, that the Department of Justice look into whether or not the FBI/DOJ infiltrated or surveilled the Trump Campaign for Political Purposes - and if any such demands or requests were made by people within the Obama Administration!