An engineer reportedly found cracks in a new pedestrian bridge at Florida International University in the Miami two days before it collapsed on Thursday, killing at least six people.

An engineer with the firm that designed the bridge left a voicemail with the Florida Department of Transportation reporting some cracking thats been observed on the north end of the span, though he did not believe it to be an immediate safety concern. An employee at the Florida Department of Transportation did not receive the voicemail until after the bridges collapse, reports the Miami Herald.

The National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating the disaster, has not determined whether the cracks had anything to do with the bridges collapse.

Installed Saturday, the bridge was constructed to give pedestrian access over the Tamiami Trail, a busy stretch of Florida highway that claimed an undergraduate students life last August. While the university does offer shuttles between campus and the neighboring town, the bridge was being built to connect the campus with the town of Sweetwater, where thousands of students live.

The bridge was installed using what was hailed as an innovative construction method  accelerated bridge construction, or instant bridge  which was meant to reduce risk to workers and pedestrians and prevent traffic in the area. Over the past several months, the bridge was assembled on the side of the trail while support towers were put in place on either side of the highway; then it was picked up and positioned over the road in a matter of hours. The plan was expected to be finished in early 2019 and include a plaza and wifi.

The project, funded by the US Department of Transportation, cost $14.2 million and was part of a larger prosperity initiative led by the university. Infrastructure has been identified as one of the Trump administrations priorities, despite a lack of urgency to actually push the issue in Congress.

The White House released a What you need to know about Infrastructure Funding briefing, touting the presidents infrastructure proposal, just minutes after the news in Florida. Its not clear whether the release was intentionally timed with the accident.

Heres what we know and dont know about the bridge collapse.