Andrew McCabe, the deputy director of the FBI and longtime target of President Donald Trumps ire, was fired by Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Friday. McCabe stepped down from his position in January amid weeks of Republican attacks but hadnt planned to formally retire until March 18, his 50th birthday. Sessionss decision to fire him ahead of that could strip him of his federal pension.

Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz found that, in 2016, McCabe inappropriately allowed two top officials to talk to reporters about his decision to open a case into the Clinton Foundation. The inspector general determined that McCabe lied to investigators when asked about the matter, leaving it up to Sessions whether to fire him ahead of his retirement  which Sessions ultimately did.

Pursuant to Department Order 1202, and based on the report of the Inspector General, the findings of the FBI Office of Professional Responsibility, and the recommendation of the Departments senior career official, I have terminated the employment of Andrew McCabe effective immediately, Sessions said in a statement.

McCabe responded with a fiery statement of his own. He said he was being singled out and treated this way because of what his actions after FBI Director James Comey was fired in May 2017 and that the attack on his credibility is part of a larger effort not just to slander me personally, but to taint the FBI, law enforcement, and intelligence professionals more generally. He said the big picture is a tale of what can happen when law enforcement is politicized.

The saga over McCabe  and President Trumps animus toward him  goes back to a long-running controversy over McCabes wifes allegedly compromising political ties to Hillary Clinton. In 2015, McCabes wife ran for a state Senate seat in Virginia, backed in part with money provided by the state Democratic party and a Clinton ally. Trump and other Republicans have used this probe to argue that McCabe is secretly harboring an anti-Republican agenda.

This came to a head in recent months, despite having been known for over a year, because McCabes name surfaced in a controversial text message sent by FBI agent Peter Strzok, who was recently removed from Special Counsel Robert Muellers Russia probe over evidence of anti-Trump political bias. Strzok had mentioned someone named Andy in a text message with federal attorney Lisa Page, seeming to suggest there was a discussion about Trump  and not a positive one  in McCabes office.

These revelations have led a number of prominent Republicans in Congress to outright call for McCabes firing.He oughta be replaced. And Ive said that before and Ive said it to people who can do it, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) told reporters in December.

But there is little evidence so far that McCabe harbors some kind of personal vendetta against the president, let alone any evidence that its affecting his job performance.

Hes certainly not politically compromised  at least not based on what we now know, Jens David Ohlin, a law professor at Cornell University, said. Its one thing for them to go after Mueller and his team  which I would expect  but the administration seems intent on delegitimizing the entire FBI and the Justice Department.

This whole saga reflects an increasing Republican willingness to treat the FBI as an enemy of the party  a development with troubling implications for the bureaus independence and the health of American democracy more broadly.

To understand the context for McCabes departure, we need to turn back the clock to 2015.

That year, Dr. Jill McCabe  Andrews wife  ran for Virginia state Senate with support of the states Democratic Party. She received $467,500 from then-Gov. Terry McAuliffes political action committee and $207,788 from the states Democratic Party. McAuliffe, its worth noting, is a political ally and personal friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton.

McCabe lost her campaign and didnt run again. But the donations she received would turn out to be a big problem for her husband just a few months later, when they were revealed by Wall Street Journal reporter Devlin Barrett in October 2016. At the time, Deputy Director McCabe was overseeing the investigation into Hillary Clintons private email server  which just happened to be one of the biggest issues in the 2016 presidential election.

The Trump team screamed bias, and continued making noise about it even after his electoral victory. On January 12, the Justice Departments Inspector General announced a probe into the FBIs handling of the Clinton server investigation, including allegations that the FBI Deputy Director should have been recused from participating in certain investigative matters.

The probes findings have not yet been released but are at the basis of McCabes firing by Sessions. Thus far, theres has been no indication that McCabe was compromised in anyway. The issue subsided for the early months of Trumps presidency, sidelined by other controversies, until Trump fired FBI Director James Comey on May 9. This made McCabe acting FBI director; all of a sudden, a man that the president believed could be biased against him was in charge of (among other things) the probe into the Trump campaigns connections to Russia.

It didnt take too long for Trump to make his anger with this development known. On July 26, he called on Attorney General Sessions to fire McCabe. This level of presidential involvement in FBI personnel decisions is highly unusual, especially given the lack of concrete evidence of McCabes guilt:

Sessions declined to do as Trump asked, and the issue died down once again  only to resurface in early December, when news of Strzoks dismissal from the Mueller probe broke.

The Justice Department released the text messages that got agent Strzok taken off the Mueller investigation in mid-December. The texts include some colorful descriptions of President Trump  Strzok referred to him as a douche and an utter idiot, among other things. He also said Clinton just had to win the race.

But one message, which Strzok sent in mid-2016 to US attorney Lisa Page, was more troubling. Heres what it said:

Its a really confusing message. Andy appears to be a reference to McCabe, which would make sense given that Strzok was working on the Clinton email case at the time. Many Republicans allege that the insurance policy line is evidence of some kind of plot against Trump on the part of the FBI, though the plain text of the message suggests nothing of the kind.

Because the message is so cryptic  we dont even know for sure if Andy actually refers to McCabe, for instance  its hard to know what its actually referring to. But combined with the other texts openly critical of Trump and supportive of Clinton, it certainly suggested some degree of bias on Strzoks part, and thats evidently why Mueller chose to remove him from the investigation.

lll be a little bit surprised if hes still an employee of the FBI this time next week

But that wasnt enough for some Republicans, who are convinced there is some deeper conspiracy afoot involving McCabe and are determined to get to the bottom of it. In January, members of the House Intelligence Committee grilled McCabe behind closed doors for more than seven hours.

And later that evening, House Judiciary Chair Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), and Gowdy, who chairs the House Oversight Committee, sent the Justice Department a letter announcing a joint investigation into the FBIs handling of the Clinton email and Trump-Russia scandals. They requested that the bureau make McCabe available for yet another interview as part of that investigation.

Republican attacks on the FBI escalated again in January, when we learned that an unknown number of texts between two FBI employees between Strzok and Page had been deleted from FBI records. This turned out to be the result of an IT glitch, according to the best available evidence, but Republicans and their allies in the conservative press regularly accused the FBI of intentionally deleting them as part of a cover-up.

Are we really supposed to believe that the FBI simply lost text messages from that important time frame? This is like Watergate but far worse, Sean Hannity said in a monologue. This reeks of law-breaking, it reeks of conspiracy, and it reeks of obstruction of justice.

Independent experts like Ohlin, the Cornell professor, dont see any strong ground to dismiss McCabe in any of this.

Id need a lot more evidence that his alleged bias involved any official acts, says Andy Wright, a professor at Savannah Law School. Based on the hearsay, unclear text ... or because his wife ran as a Democrat before Trumps campaign? Please.

And yet, he left the bureau and has now been fired.

We dont know for sure that Republican pressure is the reason that McCabe left early for a fact. And McCabe isnt the only one at the Justice Department that Republicans and the president have targeted.

A growing number of congressional GOP members and right-wing commentators are calling for Mueller himself to be dismissed for similar reasons: that is, his perceived bias against Trump. The evidence of such is similarly thin.

Critics of [Mueller] point to what they call a mound of evidence  much of it exaggerated, mischaracterized, or outright false  to justify his potential ouster, writes Voxs Alex Ward.

A number of observers see these efforts are part of a broader GOP ploy to paint the DOJ as hopelessly biased against Trump and thus soften the blow of any potential charges against the president or his associates that come out of the Mueller probe.

Usually the GOP is a law-and-order party, very pro-police, Ohlin says. But they seem to be on the verge of declaring war on the countrys top law enforcement agency.

Trump already fired FBI director James Comey back in May, raising questions about whether the president was trying to thwart the FBIs investigation into his campaigns ties with Russia. In that context, McCabes early retirement and subsequent firing so that hell be without his pension after years of service sends a chilling message: Draw the presidents ire, especially by investigating him, and watch out.