In recent years, the number of people moving away from the state of California has greatly outnumbered the number of people moving into the state.  Reasons for the mass exodus include rising crime, the worst traffic in the western world, a growing homelessness epidemic, wildfires, earthquakes and crazy politicians that do some of the stupidest things imaginable.  But for most families, the decision to leave California comes down to one basic factor...

For a lot of Californians, it simply does not make economic sense to remain in the state any longer.  So over the past decade approximately 5 million people have picked up and moved to another state, and many believe that this trend is going to accelerate if California does not start doing things differently.  The following is from an excellent article by Kristin Tate, the author of a new book entitled How Do I Tax Thee?: A Field Guide to the Great American Rip-Off...

I dont know anyone that enjoys being taxed at extremely high levels, and in California extracting more and more revenue from the citizens has become an art form.  Californias highest marginal tax rate is now a whopping 13.3 percent, and on average taxpayers are hit with a 9.3 percent rate...

Under the old rules, the tax burden imposed upon Californians was mitigated by federal rules allowing for the deduction of state taxes.  But now the new tax bill has made some major changes, and some experts believe that this will actually accelerate the exodus out of the state of California.  The following comes from CNBC...

In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal headlined So Long, California. Sayonara, New York, Laffer and Moore (who have both advised President Donald Trump) say the new tax bill will cause a net 800,000 people to move out of California and New York over the next three years. The tax changes limit the deduction of state and local taxes to $10,000, so many high-earning taxpayers in high-tax states will actually face a tax increase under the new tax code.

Of course taxation is only part of the equation.

For many, the exceedingly high cost of housing in California is the primary reason that they have chosen to leave.  At this point, the average price of a home in California is more than $200,000 above the national average...

And that $469,000 figure is for the state as a whole.

In Santa Clara County (the home of Google and Apple), the median price of a single family home is 1.4 million dollars.

Yes, you read that correctly.

In some areas of northern California, the housing bubble is completely out of control.  For example, just recently a burned out husk of a home sold for more than $900,000...

Real estate agent Holly Barr says shes never had a listing generate as much attention as the one on Bird Avenue in the San Jose neighborhood of Willow Glen. The house caught fire two years ago during a remodeling job. What was left was a burned-out husk of a California bungalow sitting on 5,800 square feet of land. When Barr put the property on the market in April for $800,000, the listing made international headlines. It sold for over $900,000  in less than a week. The burned down house will be razed and a new property will be built there that will likely sell for far more.

Well, if families cannot afford to buy a home, why dont they just rent?

Unfortunately, we have seen rents spiral completely out of control as well...

Sadly, rapidly rising prices have greatly contributed to the homelessness epidemic that California is dealing with right now.

Even though we are supposedly in an economic recovery, the number of homeless people in Los Angeles has risen by an astounding 50 percent over the last five years...

And it isnt just families that are leaving.

In fact, sometimes entire companies are picking up and relocating to another state.  For example, Price Pump Manufacturing Co. is leaving the Golden State and is heading for Idaho...

And I found another article today about a company that has decided to leave California and is relocating to Phoenix, Arizona...

As long as tech giants such as Google and Apple are thriving, the trends that are driving such dramatic change in the state are likely to continue.

So we are likely to continue to see a very large exodus out of California, and those that are leaving will continue to fundamentally change the communities that they are moving into.

Because there is such a disparity between the number of people moving out and the number of people moving in, it actually costs nearly twice as much to take a U-Haul from California to Texas as it does to take a U-Haul from Texas to California...

Once upon a time, millions of young Americans dreamed of moving to California.  It was a land of gorgeous weather, movie stars and endless opportunity.

But now the California Dream has turned into the California nightmare, and people are heading out of the state in droves.