As special counsel Robert Muellers investigators prepared charges against Paul Manafort and Michael Flynn last year, President Donald Trumps then-lawyer sent the two men word that Trump might pardon them, according to a new report from five New York Times journalists.

Yes  if the Times report is right, a personal lawyer for the president of the United States floated preemptive possible pardons in secret communications with two of the presidents close associates. And this sure looks like an attempt to prevent them from flipping and telling Mueller what they knew.

The lawyer, John Dowd, who departed Trumps legal team last week, denied to the Times that he talked pardons, saying, There were no discussions. But the Timess sources claim that Dowd floated pardons to both Flynns lawyer Robert Kelner and Manaforts then-lawyer Reginald Brown before the two men were charged last fall.

The Times cites an anonymous person who claims that Dowd has spoken about the matter in private:

No pardons in the Russia probe have yet materialized. Flynn pleaded guilty to two charges of making false statements to investigators last December and began cooperating with Muellers team. Former Trump advisers George Papadopoulos and Rick Gates have similarly flipped, as part of plea deals.

But Manafort hasnt, despite being hit with a plethora of tax, bank fraud, false statements, and other charges in two different venues, with documentary evidence that sure seems damning. Given the nature of the charges against the defendant and the apparent weight of the evidence against him, defendant faces the very real possibility of spending the rest of his life in prison, Judge T.S. Ellis, who is overseeing Manaforts case in Virginia, said in court.

So theres been much speculation in Washington that Manafort could be resisting a plea deal with Muellers team because he expects  or, perhaps, has been told  that Trump will pardon him eventually. (Manafort and his legal team claim hes pleading not guilty because hes genuinely innocent.)

Until today, thats been mere speculation. But the Times report claims Trumps lawyer did, in fact, talk to Manaforts lawyer about a pardon. What exactly was said  or, perhaps, promised  remains unknown.

Muellers team is already looking into the question of whether Trump has tried to obstruct justice in Muellers probe, and the Times team quotes some experts saying this could be more evidence of that. However, as Voxs Dylan Matthews has written, the presidents pardon power for federal crimes is basically unlimited.

Still, there would be several problems with Trump trying to pardon his way out of the Russia investigation. The first is that it would create an enormous political backlash  the president pardoning his close associates in an ongoing investigation would truly be a stunning development.

Second, as Voxs Sean Illing has written, people Trump pardons could then be called to testify under oath about him  and theyd no longer have the ability to plead the Fifth and refuse to answer to avoid self-incrimination. Third, the presidents pardon wouldnt work for hypothetical state charges.

Perhaps the likeliest prospect, though, is that, like several other past presidents, Trump could use the pardon power liberally on his way out the door  after losing reelection, closing out his second term, or if he were to depart the office early for any reason. That, however, is still a long way off.