Your states teachers are underpaid. Find out by how much.

Share Your states teachers are underpaid. Find out by how much.

Teachers have gone on strike in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Kentucky, Arizona, and Colorado  and in most of these cases, they are demanding higher wages and increased education funding.

It started with a nine-day teacher strike in West Virginia, where teachers were told they would receive just a 1 percent pay raise and would be required to pay more for health insurance. Eventually, the governor gave in to the teachers demands and gave them a 5 percent raise as well as a hold on increasing health insurance premiums.

This spurred a wave of teacher strikes, and there may be more to come.

Theres the old truism that public school teachers arent paid enough, but these strikes highlight a trend that were seeing nationwide: Public school teachers arent getting raises that keep up with inflation  and their health insurance costs are increasing. Over time, this essentially amounts to massive pay cuts. Its a pernicious trend because raw salaries tend to increase by small amounts, so it can be hard to detect.

And its not just a problem in those states. Chances are its happening in your state too. So lets take a look.

A unique aspect of the American education system is that a huge portion of funding comes from local property taxes.

A smaller chunk of money  less than 10 percent  comes from the federal government, and this share has shrunk in the past few years.

The rest of the money is appropriated from the state, and it hasnt changed drastically in the past 10 years:

The feds are accounting for about the same amount as they were before the recession, but states are now contributing a little less. In 2007, states were responsible for about 47.6 percent of receipts. That dipped to 44.1 percent in 2010 and now has bumped back up to 46 percent. Meanwhile, local taxes have been increasingly funding public education.

In the table below, you can see how public education in your state was funded in 2017:

But as states deal with budget crises, and as state lawmakers push tax cuts for businesses and corporations, public school teachers havent gotten the raises that would help them keep up with inflation. In fact, most states havent restored education funding to pre-recession levels.

As the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities writes:

All of this means that teachers have a genuine gripe: They really have been getting paid less. Thats not just in the states where teachers are considering a strike; its probably true in your state too.

Are you a teacher who has seen your pay stagnate or go down over the years? Fill out this form and share it with your fellow teachers.