Richard Cordray, the former director of the governments top consumer watchdog, is facing off against Dennis Kucinich to be the Democratic nominee for Ohios governor. Hes banking on his Obama ties, backing from progressive Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, and his local and national credentials to propel him into Novembers general election.

Cordrays primary contest against Kucinich has been a tense one. Its also set up what Voxs Dylan Scott recently described as a family feud within the left: Warren is backing Cordray, while Our Revolution, a progressive group aligned with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) is supporting Kucinich. (Sanders himself has not weighed in.)

Cordray seems to be on track to edge out Kucinich on Tuesday  a recent Ohio poll showed he had 27.5 percent of the Democratic primary vote, while Kucinich had 13 percent.

Cordray, 59, served as the first director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau from 2012 to 2017. Created under the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill in the wake of the financial crisis, the bureau sought to enhance and enforce consumer rights and protections in the financial arena and areas such as mortgages, lending, and banking. Prior to that, Cordray served as Ohios attorney general and state treasurer. He has deep roots in Ohio and was born in Grove City, southwest of Columbus.

One Ohio Democrat told Scott its impossible to discount Kucinich because hes a great, energetic campaigner, but Cordray has his progressive credentials straight as well. Theres no way you can paint Rich Cordray as not being progressive, the Ohio Democrat said. Hes taken $12 billion away from Wall Street.

If Cordray wins, he will face the victor of Ohios Republican primary  Attorney General Mike DeWine or Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor  in November in the race to succeed current Gov. John Kasich.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was conceived of by then-Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren in 2010 and was officially created in July 2010 with Dodd-Franks passage. The bureau was met with near-immediate scrutiny from Republicans, who complained it was a severe example of government overreach and that its setup would put too much power in the hands of its single, independent director.

That translated into a contentious battle over President Barack Obamas decision to tap Cordray to head the CFPB, which he announced in July 2011. Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL) in a 2011 Wall Street Journal op-ed warned of the danger of an unaccountable consumer-protection czar and declared Cordrays nomination dead on arrival unless changes to the CFPBs setup were made.

Obama appointed Cordray anyway during a congressional recess in January 2012, and after a drawn-out fight, the Senate finally confirmed him as CFPB director in July 2013.

And in his more than five years office, Cordray accomplished quite a bit. By the CFPBs tally, the bureau handled more than 1.2 million consumer complaints and brought about nearly $12 billion in relief for harmed consumers from its inception through July 2017, four months before Cordrays exit. It required credit card companies to refund about $3 billion for deceptive marketing and enforced millions of dollars in mortgage refunds.

By any reasonable standard, his record of protecting consumers was a spectacular success, said Dennis Kelleher, president and CEO of Better Markets, a watchdog group that advocates for stricter financial regulations. There is a long list of very substantial recoveries that the CFPB got for Americas financial consumers from financial companies who were ripping them off.

Under Cordray, the CFPB hit Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citibank, and Wells Fargo with multimillion-dollar fines, created new mortgage industry rules meant to avoid another financial crisis, and launched a Know Before You Owe initiative to inform consumers before they take out loans. It opened up a public complaints portal for consumers to tell the agency about alleged wrongs by financial companies and laid out for Americans in clear, concise terms information on various financial products, services, and laws.

After Cordray left the CFPB, President Trump tapped Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney as the bureaus interim head. (Cordray attempted to make sure Leandra English, the CFPBs deputy director, was put in as his temporary successor, but a court said Trump had the right to insert Mulvaney. A court battle over the matter remains ongoing, but Mulvaney is still in charge at the moment.)

Mulvaney, who once described the CFPB as a sick, sad joke, has worked to weaken the agency and unravel parts of Cordrays legacy. Hes loosened restrictions and dropped sanctions on predatory payday lenders, weakened the bureaus anti-discrimination efforts, and even sought to change the agencys acronym. Hes taken just one enforcement action since taking over, joining another bank regulator to slap Wells Fargo with a $1 billion fine.

In a very few number of days, the acting director has done a great deal of damage, Aaron Klein, a fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution and former Treasury Department aide, recently told me. What seems to be happening at the CFPB is kind of a reflexive, anti-whatever the last guy did approach.

Warren endorsed Cordrays gubernatorial candidacy nearly as soon as it was announced and touted his work at the CFPB. Wall Street had gambled with our economy, and Ohio families paid the price with their jobs, their homes, and their life savings. So Rich Cordray fought back: He took on AIG. And Merrill Lynch/Bank of America. And Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. His office forced Wall Street to return nearly $2 billion to the workers, retirees, and investors of Ohio, she said in a statement at the time. She told voters to stand with Rich and be one of the first supporters of his campaign to take back Ohio for working families.

Valerie Jarett, a former senior adviser to President Obama, tweeted out her support for Cordray as well.

Cordrays campaign announcement video features Obama speaking about him in July 2013. Americans are better off because of what Rich has done as our consumer watchdog, the president says.

Warren has campaigned for Cordray in Ohio. She appeared at an opioids event with him in Cincinnati, held a fundraiser for him in Columbus, and took part in a rally for him at Ohio State University. Shes sent multiple campaign emails for him and wrote about him in her 2014 book, A Fighting Chance, in which she described Obamas decision to overlook her for the CFPB post and give the spot to Cordray instead. The White House plan was based on the premise that I was radioactive, but someone else could get through the Senate, she wrote. If that was correct, then I felt like I knew an inside joke: Any tough director would cause the bad guys a mess of trouble  and Rich is as tough as they come.

To be sure, the entire Democratic Party isnt on the same page about Cordray. Our Revolution, the Sanders-aligned progressive group, backed Kucinich in Ohios Democratic gubernatorial primary. Sanders himself is staying out of it.

Cordray is running alongside Betty Sutton, who is seeking to become Ohios next lieutenant governor. The pairs website outlines a number of issues they say theyll address or support if elected, including a number of par-for-the-course Democratic items  universal pre-K, free community college, and clean energy. They also emphasize the importance of addressing Ohios opioid crisis, estimating it costs the state between $6.6 billion and $8.8 billion every year.

Like most politicians  and, frankly, most people  Cordray brings some baggage with him. The Columbus Dispatch points out that as state treasurer in 2008, Cordray hired Amer Ahmad, who in 2013 pleaded guilty to fraud and other crimes while working for Cordrays successor, Kevin Boyce. Cordray told the publication there were no problems with Ahmad when he was hired and that later it turned out that he went down the wrong path and became a criminal.

Cordray also does not have the most progressive record on guns. He supports universal background checks, a ban on high-capacity magazines and bump stocks, and setting the minimum purchase age at 21. He didnt line up with Kucinich on his call for an assault weapons ban, and his Democratic opponents campaign circulated a video of him speaking at a Second Amendment rally while he was attorney general in 2010. Cordray told the Dispatch he was only doing his job at the time.

But in 2010, Cordray went a step further, signing onto a friend-of-the-court brief to the U.S. Supreme Court in McDonald v. Chicago. With it, Cordray supported extending to the states a personal right to bear arms first enunciated by the court in 2008. Eventually, his move was backed by 38 other attorneys general, including 21 Democrats, his campaign says. Former U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, a Republican appointee, set off a furor last week with an op-ed column in The New York Times arguing for the repeal of the Second Amendment. He also said that the initial 2008 Heller decision was a radical departure. It contradicted 200 years worth of jurisprudence saying that the Second Amendment did not place any limit on either federal or state authority to enact gun-control legislation, Stevens wrote. I do believe theres a Second Amendment right in the Constitution and we have a right to bear arms in the Ohio Constitution as well, he said. It has some different wording. Where I grew up in rural Ohio, people own guns. They use them for hunting and self-defense and not much more. I do think that is a constitutional right.

In the post-Parkland era when theres a strong desire for gun control among many Americans, Cordrays gun record could be somewhat problematic for him with progressives. It could, however, help him win over moderates in the general election.

In January, Cordray took Twitter users by surprise with a whimsical tweet about his home states form. Ohio has a unique and pleasing shape, I have always thought, he wrote. Kind of a pentagon or a home plate, with straight sides, a meandering river boundary below, and a partly straight top with a friendly bite mark out of it on the northeast side from Lake Erie.

A couple of days later, he tweeted out some John Mellencamp lyrics.

Of the tweets, campaign spokesperson Luke Blocher said in a statement that Cordray writes his own tweets and that they serve as an accurate reflection of who he is: thoughtful, funny, and yes, sometimes a little nerdy. He said Cordray knows not everyone appreciates his dad jokes, but theyre what he wants to do.

And the tweets keep coming. On Tuesday, the day of Cordrays primary race in Ohio, he tweeted in celebration of the Cleveland Cavaliers four-game sweep in its victory over the Toronto Raptors in the NBA playoffs. The image: a broom.