Federal investigators tapped the phone of Michael Cohen, President Donald Trumps longtime lawyer and business associate  and recorded at least one phone call between the White House and Cohen.

NBC News reports that the feds had a wiretap on Cohens phones in the weeks leading up to the April 9 FBI raid on his office, hotel room, and home, although its unclear exactly when the wiretap was first put in place.

Cohen is currently under investigation for a $130,000 hush money payment he made to porn actress Stormy Daniels, who claims she had an affair with Trump years ago. Trump denies he had an affair with Daniels, but he confirmed on Thursday that he did in fact know about the payment and had actually paid Cohen back  something Trump had previously denied.

NBC News also reports that Rudy Giuliani, Trumps newest lawyer, found out that Trump had called Cohen just days after the FBI raid, prompting Giuliani to immediately tell Trump never to call Cohen again out of concern the feds were recording Cohens phone calls.

This is unquestionably bad news for Cohen  and for Trump. Before Trump became president, Cohen was Trumps fixer, as the Daniels saga illustrates. In effect, Cohen knows many, if not all, of Trumps deepest, darkest secrets. If investigators heard Cohen say anything incriminating, it could hurt him in court and possibly cause more legal headaches for the president.

After the NBC News story broke, Giuliani told Washington Post reporter Robert Costa that he didnt know about the wiretap. If they picked up the president, they would have had to notify him, Giuliani said, adding that it would make a mockery of attorney-client privilege.

Asha Rangappa, a former FBI agent and senior lecturer at Yale University, said the news means prosecutors may be onto a strong case. Criminal wiretaps are difficult to get, she tweeted shortly after the news came out. You have to show a court that your intercepts will uncover evidence of a crime that you cannot obtain through less intrusive means. Prosecutors already revealed theyve looked into many of Cohens private email accounts.

Last month, Cohen said hed invoke his Fifth Amendment right to avoid self-incrimination, meaning he wont answer questions from prosecutors. But it seems Cohen may have learned how to keep his mouth shut a little too late in the game.