Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt emerged bruised but unbroken from two hearings on Capitol Hill last week where he faced intense questioning and open calls for his resignation from lawmakers.

While his boss President Trumps misdeeds are now dominating the news again, troubling details of Pruitts increasingly long list of alleged ethical transgressions have continued to trickle out. Just this week, the Washington Post reported that Pruitts unannounced trip to Morocco last year to pitch US natural gas cost $100,000, more than double previous estimates, and was arranged by a close lobbyist friend, Richard Smotkin, who in turn won a $40,000-a-month contract to lobby on behalf of the Moroccan government.

Some of Pruitts ethics problems are no longer just allegations, but violations of the law: The Government Accountability Office concluded last month that the $43,000 soundproof phone booth Pruitt insisted upon for his office broke two laws that restrict how agencies can spend money.

And there may be more to come. Multiple institutions  including the GAO, the EPAs inspector general, the House Oversight Committee, and the White House  are investigating Pruitts other indiscretions like his first class luxury travel, a sweetheart housing deal with a lobbyist, retaliation against staff, and his use of a loophole to get raises for two close aides.

Pruitt now faces almost a dozen federal investigations and is now looking to set up a legal defense fund, according to the New York Times. Meanwhile, three top EPA officials have resigned this week: Top communications staffer Liz Bowman, the head of Pruitts security detail Pasquale Perrotta, and Albert Kelly, a banker banned from the banking industry who was put in charge of the Superfund program.

The investigations will likely take months to complete, but forthcoming decisions could change the balance of Pruitts standing in the White House as he struggles to keep his tally of accomplishments at the EPA above his rising scandals.

Here is a list based on the best information we could gather on many of the investigations into his time in office:

The EPAs Office of the Inspector General audits and investigates potential wrongdoing at the agency. Though its part of the EPA, Congress appropriates its budget separately to give it independence.

A spokesperson for the IG explained that audit is a systematic assessment of how well an EPA office is doing its job, whereas an investigation is conducted in response to reports of wrongdoing and focus on an individual. The IGs office does not confirm or deny the existence of ongoing investigations.

Arthur Elkins, the EPAs Inspector General, sent a letter to lawmakers last month informing them that his office is adding some of their concerns to existing audits and will likely open new reviews as well, though the office has not issued any public notifications of new work.

The IGs office did confirm to Vox that at least four audits related to Pruitt are underway:

Meanwhile, the IG has placed the following additional matters under review:

The GAOs key responsibility is to keep track of how the government spends money, so it makes sense that the agency is very interested in whats going on at the EPA.

Last month, Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) sent a letter to the GAO asking it to look into Pruitts potential misuse of hiring authority. A spokesperson for GAO said it will not begin work on this request until it the EPA IG completes its review, but did confirm to Vox three audits are underway or completed:

The House Oversight Committee is investigating Pruitts travels to Morocco and Italy, as well as his housing arrangements as part of one broad investigation. A spokesperson this week told Vox the Committee has already received 1,700 pages of documents.

The committee has already interviewed Perrotta and has lined up interviews with Chmielewski, EPA chief of staff Ryan Jackson, and the two Pruitt aides who got raises without White House approval, Millan Hupp and Sarah Greenwalt.

Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy went on Fox News last month and mocked Pruitts excuses for wanting to fly first class.

The White House has launched its own investigation into Pruitts condo deal as well. The White House did not respond to a request for comment.

Meanwhile, four House Republicans have called on Pruitt to resign, while a handful of senators have publicly come to his defense. At the same time, the administrators allies in the fossil fuel sector and among conservative groups are rallying the troops to keep him in office, scrambling to justify his massive security detail and to brush off audits as a political ploy.

By the time these audits yield tangible results (it could be months), some of the pressure on Pruitt is likely to have dissipated. But environmentalists are energized and some Democrats smell blood in the water, so they arent likely to let this go and will continue making more inquiries.

And come November, the balance of power may shift in Congress. So the White House will have to weigh whether Pruitt can still advance the ball for the Trump agenda against the questions about his ethics.