MSNBCs Morning Joe spent a large portion of its Friday broadcast attempting to goad the President into taking action on gun control by calling Trump a coward and a small man who could become a hero if he enables strict gun laws.

Joe Scarborough accused Trump and the GOP of doing nothing to protect Americans from future killings, claiming that They hide behind the lie that Americans have a constitutional right to own a military-style weapon.

We know this is going to happen again! Scarborough said. Donald Trump knew this day was coming. Donald Trump knows another school shooting is coming. Donald Trump snows another church shooting is coming. More Christians will be gunned down in churches in middle America. More country music fans will be gunned down at concerts across America.

Scarboroughs guest Donny Deutsche openly suggested that Trump could be manipulated into acting on gun control.

If you think about what drives him, what motivates him more than anything is to be the ultimate hero, to be the ultimate contrarian. Deutsche stated.

Donald Trump has proven to be a coward. Scarborough replied.

Hes proven to be a small man. Why would Donald Trump stop being a coward now? Why would he stop being a frightened little man now?!

My hope is that his ego is bigger than his cowardice, Deutsche responded, adding we would forgive Russia!

Elsewhere during the broadcast, Scarborough compared Trump to Pontius Pilate, saying that he was Letting Christians get slaughtered in pews, letting country fans get slaughtered at concerts.

When Christians in the heart of Texas go to church one Sunday morning and they get gunned down by the same type of weapon, Donald Trump says he cant do anything, Scarborough said.

When a crazed man in Las Vegas guns down country music fans that just want to go hear to their country music stars and sing along and have a nice night out after working hard all week, Donald Trump has no answers. Hes clueless, the host urged.

He is letting our children get slaughtered. Week, by week, by week. And it will happen again. Scarborough charged.