The Resistance Now is a weekly update on the people, action and ideas driving the protest movement in the US. If youre not already receiving it by email, subscribe.

Hundreds of thousands of people are expected to gather in Washington DC today, in what could be one of the biggest protests since the Womens March in 2017.

The ACLU said more than 300,000 people will march from Lafayette Square, near the White House, towards the Capitol building, while events are planned in Foley Square in New York City and Daley Plaza in Chicago.

But its not just in the big, traditionally liberal, cities where protests are happening  people have also organized scores of demonstrations in red border states at the heart of immigration battles. There are more than 30 rallies in Texas and 11 in Arizona. Elsewhere, people will gather outside Fargo library, in North Dakota, to protest against Trump, while the Alaskan island of Kodiak  population 6,130  is holding a rally at the Y intersection downtown.

The Families Belong Together Coalition, which includes National Domestic Workers Alliance, the Leadership Conference, MoveOn and the ACLU, has helped to organize hundreds of other events, across all 50 states.

Its part of a wave of protests against Trump. On Thursday almost 600 women were arrested at the Hart Senate building in Washington DC following a protest against Trumps policies. Representative Pramila Jayapal, from Washington, was among those detained.

The Trump administration has reversed its policy of taking children away from their parents, but activists fear the governments hardline stance could still unfairly target those seeking entry to the US.

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez thrashed the guitar-playing establishment Democrat Joe Crowley in Tuesday nights New Yorks 14th congressional district primary, taking 57.5% of the vote to Crowleys 42.5%.

Ocasio-Cortez, a 28-year-old progressive and former Bernie Sanders volunteer, was outspent 18-1 by Crowley, but triumphed with a grassroots, boots on the ground campaign that offers hope to other leftwing candidates ahead of Novembers elections. Read more on Ocasio-Cortez here.

In Maryland, meanwhile, the Bernie Sanders-backed leftie Ben Jealous won a crowded Democratic primary. Jealous now faces the daunting task of taking on the incumbent Republican Larry Hogan  who has a 70% approval rating  in November. The Baltimore Sun broke down what Jealous needs to do to win.

Collins dictionary notes that in British slang the word trump means to expel intestinal gas through the anus, and it seems the president will be just as welcome as such a movement when he visits the UK next month.

More than 50,000 people are planning to attend a demonstration in Trafalgar Square to protest against Trumps presence, while activists plan to fly a giant baby Trump blimp over London during the presidents visit.

Trump is slipping into the country for a working visit  a step down from a state visit  on 13 July, and will reportedly spend only a little time in London, opting instead for the sanctuary of one of his golf courses.

Writing about Anthony Kennedys retirement from the supreme court, Jill Abramson says that Trumps first court pick, Neil Gorsuch, has formed an unholy alliance with the most rightwing justice, Clarence Thomas [and] the White House will now be hoping that this dynamic duo can become a trio. Abramson compares the upcoming battle to Ronald Reagans thwarted nomination of controversial rightwinger Robert Bork.



 This article was amended on 2 July 2018. Ben Jealous won the Democratic primary for Maryland, not Baltimore as originally stated.