West Brom produced a "useless comeback" by scoring two late goals to take a point at the Hawthorns, says Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp.

The hosts were 2-0 down after 79 minutes - Danny Ings and Mohamed Salah on target for the Reds - before goals from Jake Livermore and Salomon Rondon.

However the Baggies will be relegated on Sunday if Swansea beat Manchester City.

"I don't think that point will help West Brom massively, it is a complete waste of points. They don't need it, we would have needed it," Klopp added.

"They are happy now, we are not happy. We stay in the league, they don't stay in the league - it is a strange situation."

The German also criticised the Hawthorns' "dry pitch" after the draw.

The host's comeback started when Livermore scrambled home at a corner for his first goal at the club before Rondon headed in Chris Brunt's free-kick in the 88th minute.

Salah had earlier continued his brilliant form with a chipped second-half finish which takes him to 31 Premier League goals this season and sees him equal the record for a 38-game campaign.

Liverpool, who made five changes to their starting line-up with their Champions League semi-final on Tuesday in mind, were ahead after just four minutes through Ings.

The Englishman, who was making just his second start under Jurgen Klopp, stroked home from six yards for his first goal since October 2015.

The draw ensures West Brom caretaker manager Darren Moore extends his unbeaten start in charge, but his side remain bottom, eight points from safety with three games left.

West Brom have been hapless for much of the season, winning just one point in 18 games during Alan Pardew's four months in charge, but in the past two games they have shown plenty of spirit against two of the league's best teams.

They beat Manchester United last weekend and have now followed that with another morale-boosting showing against Liverpool.

The Baggies battled throughout the game and caused Liverpool problems, particularly with crosses into the box, but when Salah added Liverpool's second in 72nd minute, most in the ground believed the result was sealed.

"We're really delighted," Moore said. "Another positive result and solid performance against a very good team.

"Today we've earned that result. The support, players and staff have all come together.

"The big thing for me is the togetherness."

Despite the comeback, however, there seemed to be a feeling of proud resignation at full-time: the crowd applauded but were not celebratory and Rondon crouched to his knees.

They are still two points below 19th-placed Stoke and eight adrift of Swansea in 17th who have played two games fewer.

"I will only look to the game ahead," Moore said. "This game was a massive hurdle and to come out with a positive performance and a point, we will see what happens this weekend."

By adding another draw to the win and a draw in his first two games in charge, Moore has at least further strengthened his claim for the job on a permanent basis regardless of which division West Brom are playing in next season.

However, when asked about his future at full-time Moore was again non-committal, saying "it is about the next game".

It looked like Liverpool were on course to collect three points despite Klopp resting forward Roberto Firmino, midfielder Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and defenders Trent Alexander-Arnold, Dejan Lovren and Andrew Robertson.

But despite taking the lead, with Joe Gomez, Ragnar Klavan and Alberto Moreno recalled in defence, Liverpool always looked shaky at the back.

West Brom did not create much from open play but they often caused trouble at set pieces and it was defending at a free-kick and a corner which cost the Reds the win.

But Klopp will still be pleased that they completed the game without any injury scares and they remain eight points clear of fifth-placed Chelsea.

Salah's 31st league goal took him alongside Alan Shearer, Cristiano Ronaldo and Luis Suarez, who share the record for a 38-game season.

And Ings, who has recovered from two serious knee injuries, scored his first goal in 930 days and he celebrated his early strike with plenty of emotion.

"It has been a long time," Ings said. "I've had to climb a huge mountain to get into this position. But I would have sacrificed that for three points."

Ings was also involved in an incident with West Brom's Ahmed Hegazi when the Egyptian appeared to punch the striker, albeit with little force.

Klopp also described the match as a "difficult game" because of the "dry pitch" at the Hawthorns.

"West Brom decided not to water the pitch at half-time and that makes it difficult," the German said.

"It makes a massive difference. A team like West Brom do not need a wet pitch, they can do it next year playing on a dry pitch in the Championship."

Moore responded to those comments by saying the pitch "was not a tactic" and was "the same for both teams".

"It was a hot afternoon - we watered the pitch before the game," said Moore. "The heat has dried out the pitch."

West Brom travel to Newcastle next Saturday (15:00 BST) while Liverpool follow their European exploits with a home game against Stoke earlier the same day. (12:30 BST).