The most eye-popping allegations Stormy Daniels made in her 60 Minutes interview with Anderson Cooper Sunday night werent about Donald Trump. They were about other figures in Trumps orbit  an unnamed thug, and a man she believes to be Trump lawyer Michael Cohen  who she says tried to intimidate her out of sharing the truth about her affair with Trump on two separate occasions (in 2011 and 2018, respectively).

Theyre also the most outlandish-sounding.

Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford) says that in 2011, an unnamed man approached her in a parking lot when she was with her infant daughter and implied that shed face bodily harm if she talked about Trump again:

Then in 2018, she says, she was coerced into signing a statement denying the affair with Trump, because a man told her on the phone that We can make your life hell in many different ways if she refused to sign. Daniels told Cooper she believes that man was Michael Cohen.

Even if you believe Daniels is telling the truth about her affair with Trump, its reasonable to wonder if shes not embellishing these incidents at least a little. The approach in a strange parking lot, the B-movie dialogue  it all seems a bit on the nose. And its possible shes making them up entirely, in order to explain why she didnt go public before now, and why she signed that statement just a few months ago contradicting everything she said on 60 Minutes Sunday night.

But this isnt the first time that figures in Trumpworld have been accused of using two-bit intimidation tactics to silence people who had compromising information on Trump. And Cohens behavior  both in the past and in response to Daniels  doesnt exactly make it harder to believe that he could be involved in the incidents as Daniels describes them.

Even though other parts of Stormy Danielss story are corroborated by financial documents and other records  the $130,000 payoff she received weeks before the 2016 presidential election, for example  the episodes of intimidation she recounted to 60 Minutes dont yet have evidence to back them up.

But two past allegations of intimidation against Trumpworld officials, both of which were reported by BuzzFeed News in 2017, do have some form of paper trail.

In 2009, as BuzzFeeds Jason Leopold reported, an attorney named Kristopher Hansen called the FBI and reported that hed received a threatening phone call from a man he believed to be Donald Trumps bodyguard.

Hansen represented a group of investors in Trumps casino company, which was going bankrupt (potentially costing the investors $1.25 billion in defaulted debt). Hansen told the local police department that the caller threatened his wife and children:

According to Leopold, the FBI found Hansens account credible enough that they gave him a portable recording device and asked him to record any other calls he got. Meanwhile, they traced the number that had shown up on Hansens BlackBerry back to a Manhattan phone booth across the street from the theater that hosted The Late Show With David Letterman  on which Trump taped an appearance a few hours after the call was made. (Three former employees of the show told BuzzFeed News that guests were asked to arrive in advance of the 4:30 taping, though accounts differ on just how far in advance, Leopold writes.)

Theres also a claim of physical intimidation in Trumps business history. in 1995, a Trump building superintendent and his family sued the Trump Organization for false imprisonment, saying the superintendents wife and child were assaulted by Trump security guards. The superintendent said he had information about financial improprieties at Trump buildings, and sent his wife and 12-year-old son to pick up some relevant documents, but the lawsuit claimed the office they were in was broken into with a screwdriver:

None of the security guards named in the lawsuit were charged, although FBI special agents told BuzzFeed News that two of them were questioned as persons of interest.

Because neither of these allegations resulted in criminal charges, much less convictions, theyre not proof of anything. But they bear a resemblance to some aspects of Danielss story: the threatening phone calls, the willingness to threaten or harm children. At the very least, theyre evidence that shes not the first person to accuse Trump surrogates of acting like B-movie thugs.

At the center of the Daniels story is Trumps personal lawyer Michael Cohen, who wrote the $130,000 check to her in 2016 (something campaign finance experts suggest might have been an illegal in-kind donation to the Trump campaign). Daniels told Cooper that she believed Cohen was the man who told her if she didnt sign a statement of denial, We can make your life hell in many different ways.

If true, it wouldnt be the first time Cohen had made threats over the phone.

In 2015, the Daily Beasts Tim Mak was reporting a story about Ivana Trumps allegation that Donald Trump raped her while they were still married in the 1990s. He called Cohen for comment, and after claiming that marital rape wasnt illegal in New York at the time (it was), Cohen threatened Mak and the Daily Beast:

I will make sure that you and I meet one day while were in the courthouse. And I will take you for every penny you still dont have. And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know, Cohen said. So Im warning you, tread very fucking lightly, because what Im going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting. You understand me? You write a story that has Mr. Trumps name in it, with the word rape, and Im going to mess your life up ... for as long as youre on this frickin planet ... youre going to have judgments against you, so much money, youll never know how to get out from underneath it, he added.

Lawsuit threats from Trump lawyers arent unusual, but What Im going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting ... Im going to mess your life up goes beyond a simple lawsuit threat.

Whats really interesting is that Cohen hasnt publicly denied threatening to make Danielss life hell in 2018. What he is denying is being involved in sending the thug to intimidate Daniels in 2011  something Daniels isnt actually accusing him of.

Before the 60 Minutes interview aired (when all that was known was that Danielss lawyer confirmed she had been physically threatened at one point), Cohen told Vanity Fair, I have never threatened her in any way and I am unaware of anyone else doing so  though he said he could only speak for himself.

Immediately after the interview aired, Cohens lawyer Brent Blakely used much stronger language in a letter to Danielss lawyer:

But Daniels never said Cohen was responsible for the thug. She didnt mention Cohen in that part of the story at all.

Either Cohens lawyer made an elementary error, and sent a cease-and-desist letter over the wrong allegation, or Cohen assumed Daniels was talking about him when she didnt actually specify  something that raises questions about why he made that assumption to begin with.