The 28-year-old Democratic socialist came away with a remarkable Democratic primary victory in New York's 14th Congressional District last week, and has since been defending herself against critics from across the political spectrum on Twitter.

One of the latest remarks came from John Cardillo, the host of Newsmax TV's "America Talks Live," who tweeted a picture of Ocasio-Cortez's childhood home and implied that she has been misrepresenting her background as a working-class woman from the Bronx

"This is the Yorktown Heights (very nice area) home @Ocasio2018 grew up in before going off to Ivy League Brown University. A far cry from the Bronx hood upbringing she's selling," Cardillo tweeted.

But Ocasio-Cortez stepped in to set the record straight. She didn't go to Brown or any other Ivy League school -- she went to Boston University in Massachusetts, where she earned degrees in economics and international relations. Ocasio-Cortez suggested Cardillo "try Google."

was born in the Bronx to two working-class parents, the biography on her website states. According to was born in the Bronx to two working-class parents, the biography on her website states. According to Ocasio-Cortez was born in the Bronx to two working-class parents, the biography on her website states. According to The New York Times , the family moved to Yorktown Heights several years later because it had better public schools. On Twitter, Ocasio-Cortez wrote that her mother "scrubbed toilets" so her family could afford to live in the area. Hey John,



1. I didn't go to Brown or the Ivy League. I went to BU. Try Google.



2. It is nice. Growing up, it was a good town for working people. My mom scrubbed toilets so I could live here & I grew up seeing how the zip code one is born in determines much of their opportunity.  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) July 1, 2018 Ocasio-Cortez also fired back a third time. "Your attempt to strip me of my family, my story, my home, and my identity is exemplary of how scared you are of the power of all four of those things," she wrote. 3. Your attempt to strip me of my family, my story, my home, and my identity is exemplary of how scared you are of the power of all four of those things.  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) July 1, 2018 The whole event has since become a meme on Twitter, with users posting pictures of homes on Tatooine and the moon to mock Cardillo's personal attack. This isn't the first time Ocasio-Cortez has called out critics on Twitter. On Friday, she tweeted a picture of her campaign shoes -- which she said she wore to knock on doors before the primary election -- with holes in the bottoms to show people she won because she worked hard, not for "demographic reasons." Some folks are saying I won for "demographic" reasons.



1st of all, that's false. We won w/voters of all kinds.



2nd, here's my 1st pair of campaign shoes. I knocked doors until rainwater came through my soles.



Respect the hustle. We won bc we out-worked the competition. Period. pic.twitter.com/RbpQMYTiWY  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) June 29, 2018