During her announcement that Miss America would no longer judge contestants on their looks and that women of all sizes would be allowed to enter, Gretchen Carlson let slip that the move was part of a cultural revolution.

Its going to be what comes out of their mouth that were interested in, when they talk about their social impact initiatives, said Carlson, adding, Were moving it forward and were evolving in this cultural revolution.

Cultural revolution is an unfortunate choice of words given the connotations it evokes.

In a historical context, the cultural revolution refers to a socio-political movement undertaken by Chairman Mao and the Communist Party of China from 1966-1976.

The goal of the cultural revolution was to purge society of its traditional elements in order to entrench the cult of Maoism as the dominant ideology ruling society.

In practice, this led to the persecution of millions of people across the country, abuse that included mass torture, public humiliation and public execution.

While no one is suggesting that Gretchen Carlson was referring to this period of history, her choice of the phrase cultural revolution is interesting nonetheless.

It suggests that the decision to ban Miss Americas swimsuit contest and to no longer judge contestants on their personal appearance is not just a cliched nod to corporate feminism, but part of the wider culture war.

As I highlight in the video below, after 3rd wave feminism suffered a crisis of credibility in recent years, the entire #MeToo phenomenon is merely an effort to re-brand increasingly unpopular far-left narratives and stoke more gender division.

While Carlson may not be aware of the full scope of what her changes to Miss America represent, it cannot be denied that they reflect a wider war on traditionalism and a rebellion against the reality that objective standards of beauty exist and will always exist in spite of the cultural revolution currently being waged on our senses by the elite.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.