Donald Trump is a liar. Not just in the sense that we are all fallible human beings who probably say things that arent true sometimes  he has made flagrant disregard for the truth a hallmark of his approach to business and politics.

He wrote about his strategic use of dishonesty in The Art of The Deal. He admitted to routinely lying about important matters in a sworn deposition. And of course its obvious to anyone whos followed his political career that he has continued to exhibit a flagrant disregard for the truth as he pivoted from real estate developer to celebrity brand licenser to president. A core belief of his is that lying is a good way to get ahead, which is why he lies so much.

In addition to being a liar, Trump is unusually ill-informed about public policy for a president, so he plausibly says some things that aren't true out of genuine lack of knowledge. This leads to a natural caution on the part of some journalists who cover the White House about calling a lie a lie, with phrases like demonstrable falsehood instead.

Even in a news analysis piece about Trumps strategic promotion of conspiracy theories, the New York Times euphemistically referred to unconfirmed accusations rather than baseless conspiracy theories.

This preference for euphemism over straightforward language is silly, so its attracted considerable social media criticism. New York Times journalists, meanwhile, are fiercely loyal to one another in public. The institution is congenitally unwilling to accept any form of criticism. And so Times reporters have responded as they often do, not by engaging on the substance of the criticism but by questioning the critics motives.

The good news is that euphemisms are not nearly so harmful as their critics fear. The thing that Trump does is lie, and whether we call the lies lies or demonstrable falsehoods is ultimately not that important either politically or journalistically.

The bad news is the fact that Donald Trump is a liar remains incredibly important and yet poorly integrated into ongoing coverage of his administration. Every politician I can think of has, at some point, said something that isnt true. But almost all of them seem to mostly adhere to at least defensible interpretations of the facts. They do so to avoid obtaining a reputation for dishonesty, in part because they fear that obtaining a reputation for dishonesty would hurt their future efforts at communication.

Trump, thus far, has avoided this penalty. He says untrue things. The falseness of his statements is revealed and reported on. And then his future pronouncements are nonetheless treated as deserving the same presumption of truth that we grant to normal people.

Thats a big mistake. Presidents naturally end up making representations about things where the facts are not fully knowable to the public. When Trump does that, we need, as a country, to remember that our president is a huge liar.

Generally speaking, for a statement to be a lie, it needs to be false and it needs to be something that the speaker knows to be false. That distinguishes it from a wide range of other kinds of false statements that people make:

This last one is a demonstrable falsehood, though to know whether or not its a lie, you would have to know, subjectively, what the person saying it knows. Since this is impossible in most cases, it serves as an argument for journalists to avoid the ascription of knowledge and intent inherent in the word lie.

But while this is true on a case-by-case basis, we really can know that Trump lies deliberately because he says so himself.

A little hyperbole never hurts, Trump writes in his first book, The Art of the Deal. People want to believe that something is the biggest and the greatest and the most spectacular. I call it truthful hyperbole. Its an innocent form of exaggeration  and a very effective form of promotion.

Its a theme he returns to in his most recent book, Crippled America, where he asks, When was the last time you saw a sign hanging outside a pizzeria claiming The fourth best pizza in the world?

Beyond simple hyperbole, The Art of the Deal also explains in some detail a fraud Trump ran in 1982 to get the Holiday Inn corporation to go in as his partner on his first Atlantic City casino. Before the board would approve the deal, they wanted to see the site. Trump was worried hed get turned down because so little progress had been made, so he asked his construction crew to round up every bulldozer and dump truck he could possibly find and literally pretend to work for as long as the board was on site:

In Trumps eyes, it worked. The board walked away from the site absolutely convinced it was the perfect choice, he writes. In reality, I wasnt that far along, but I did everything I could, short of going to work at the site myself, to assure them that my casino was practically finished. My leverage came from confirming an impression they were already predisposed to believe.

Trump, in short, lied for personal gain and not only isnt ashamed of it but actually bragged about it repeatedly in books. During depositions taken as part of a 2007 libel lawsuit against Trump biographer Tim OBrien, Trump admitted to lying publicly more than 30 times in order to avoid lying under oath and perjuring himself.

In other words, while its hard to know the mental state behind any particular untrue thing Trump says, its easy to know that Trump is a person who knows the difference between telling the truth and lying. He knows how to tell the truth when it suits him but frequently prefers to lie.

These days, the term ethnic cleansing is uniformly understood to be a synonym for genocide. But it originated as a euphemism, deliberately deployed by its proponents to try to muddy the waters. Way back in a 1982 article about the early stirrings of ethnic unrest in then-Yugoslavia, the New York Times quoted Becir Hoti, executive secretary of the Communist Party of Kosovo, as saying The nationalists have a two-point platform: first to establish what they call an ethnically clean Albanian republic and then the merger with Albania to form a greater Albania.

The concept was later picked up by Serbian nationalists and circulated widely in the Western press, and since it was associated with horrifying atrocities, has now become a phrase that means horrifying atrocities rather than a euphemism.

By the same token, if we all start calling the thing Trump does demonstrable falsehoods or unconfirmed accusations, then those phrases will simply start to pick up some of the current condemnatory meaning of lie. It would probably be simpler to just cut to the chase and call a lie a lie, but its also probably immaterial in the long run.

The important thing about Trumps habit of lying isnt that we use the word lie; its that we remember that he is a liar the next time he goes and says something. After all, presidents say things all the time that outsiders cannot immediately verify or debunk. Most presidents, through their habit of mostly not lying, earn the right to the benefit of the doubt in such cases. Trump, with his habit of constantly offering demonstrable falsehoods, has earned the opposite.

The economist and occasional political commentator Daniel Davies once memorably wrote that fibbers forecasts are worthless, citing it as an example of a simple business school lesson with ample application to politics.

If you have doubts about the integrity of a forecaster, he wrote, you cant use their forecasts at all. Not even as a starting point.

Trump frequently makes representations about things where its simply not possible to immediately know for sure whether hes telling the truth, typically because they refer to his private plans or activities. As president, for example, Trump has said that he would develop a plan to provide every American with health insurance, that the North Korean government had agreed to denuclearize, that he would promote a bill of love to help DREAMers, that he would take on the National Rifle Association to reduce school shootings, and that he would develop a tax plan that rich people would not benefit at all from.

None of this was true. Critically, none of it was demonstrably false at the time Trump said it. But equally critically, a reasonable person would have known better than to believe in any of it because Trump lies all the time.

Yet the troubling thing about media coverage of Trump isnt that the press has failed to label lies as lies once they are proven to be lies. Its that these kinds of statements continue to be taken at face value when they are made, as if they were offered by a normal, reasonably honest person. But Trump is not a reasonably honest person. He is someone who flings around unconfirmed accusations and demonstrable falsehoods with abandon  and who does so, by his own admission, for calculated strategic purposes.

Nobody can stop him from acting this way if he wants to, but we dont need to act naive about it. When a hardcore serial liar says something new, treat his claim with the extreme skepticism it deserves.