During a speech Friday morning at the Conservative Political Action Conference, President Trump claimed that 10 to 20 percent of American school teachers are very gun adept people.

He was responding to what he called a fake news claim that he wanted to arm American school teachers  when he really meant he wants to arm teachers who are gun pros. I dont want a person that has never handled a gun that wouldnt know what a gun looks like to be armed, the president said during CPAC.

Its tempting to write this claim off as more Trump hyperbole. But Trump is in a position to make actual policy changes on gun safety, so its worth taking a serious look at his starting point.

There are 3.1 million public school and .4 million private school teachers in America, according to a 2015 National Center for Education Statistics survey. If Trump wants to arm ten to 20 percent of them, that would mean giving guns to 350,000 to 700,000 people. A review of the best available research shows no evidence that even a fraction of that number have significant experience with a gun.

Every teacher I have any contact [with] says that they dont want to be armed, that kids would be killed by errant bullets, that the halls would be pandemonium and many lives would be lost in crossfire, said NYU educational policy analyst and former US Assistant Secretary of Education Diane Ravitch about the plausibility of Trumps remarks. On the statistic itself, Ravitch added that Trump made it up.

Donald Trump said in his CPAC speech that military people, law enforcement people, they teach. And hes right: programs like Troops to Teachers and Teach for Americas You Served for America, Now Teach for America initiative work hard to train former military members to become teachers.

Troops to Teachers was established in 1993. Since then, roughly 20,000 veterans transitioned into education. While thats a significant number, its still only .57 percent of the total teaching population. And thats assuming all of them are still teaching 25 years later.

Teach for Americas program has been around since 2012 and placed 320 veterans in schools, according to the Military Times.

A Pew study shows that 76 percent of public school teachers are women. We dont know for a fact how many of these women own guns, but we do know a few things about women who own guns in general.

A separate Pew research study found that the bulk of guns in America are owned by men, while 22 percent of women in America own guns. And only a quarter of those who have earned a Bachelors degree (a prerequisite for teaching) are gun owners.

Of the women who own guns, its difficult to say whether they are truly gun adept. About four-in-ten, 43 percent, say they go shooting or to a gun range often or sometimes.

Another finding in the Pew study is that ownership is not spread out evenly across the country, a distributional problem that would make it difficult to place gun experts in every school nationwide. About 46% of gun-owners live in less-populated rural parts of the country, compared with 28 percent who live in the suburbs and 19 percent who live in cities.

Owning a gun doesnt necessarily count for much when it comes to protecting oneself or others during an active shooting incident.

Besides there being no real way to establish how someone will respond in such a high pressure situation, only 40 percent of gun owners receive formal firearms training in the first place. Fourteen percent of non-gun owners receive this training.

A look at the data for the most common majors that Americas school teachers studied when they were in college shows some not not-so-surprising trends.

The most common fields of study include the natural sciences (16.5 percent), humanities (12.5 percent), and, of course, education (14.9 percent).

Meanwhile, only 1.4 percent studied security and protective services and .3 percent studied criminal justice.

If Trump wants teachers who are truly adept at using guns, hes probably going to have to send a lot of them back to school.

The White House did not respond to requests for comment.