CNNs lobbying campaign to have YouTube ban Infowars has kicked into high gear, with the Alex Jones Channel being hit with a second strike, meaning its now on the verge of deletion.

Last week, CNN published a front page story entitled InfoWars is two strikes away from being banned from YouTube in which the news organization deliberately misrepresented our content in relation to the Parkland school shooting as part of an effort to pressure YouTube to delete our channel.

This morning, we were informed that the channel had received a second strike on a video relating to the Parkland shooting, meaning it is now on the verge of being terminated permanently.

The videos in question did not claim the school shooting didnt happen or that the victims were actors, as CNN has falsely misrepresented. The videos questioned if some of the prominent students who are now publicly leading a nationwide campaign for gun control were being coached on what to say.

The ability to question the statements of public figures on television is part of basic free expression under the First Amendment, and does not constitute bullying or harassment, as YouTube claims.

By lobbying to have one of its competitors shut down, CNN is engaging in tortious interference, which is when one party damages anothers contractual or business relationships with a third party, causing economic harm.

CNN is also engaging in fraud by misrepresenting our content to demonize Infowars as somehow being responsible for the tragedy. The true content of the banned videos can be viewed here.

YouTube is engaging in discrimination against Infowars because of our political views.

Infowars will not hesitate to pursue all legal avenues to protect our interests.

From a wider perspective, this is insidious. A news network is devoting resources to lobby for another news network to be censored.

The Alex Jones Channel has racked up over 1.5 billion views in its 10 year existence.

In Russia, the government shuts down dissident media outlets. In America, CNN apparently thinks thats its responsibility.

Other conservative media outlets who think that by remaining silent they will avoid being targeted are beyond naive. You are next.

The left wont stop until all competing voices have been financially crippled or silenced altogether.

Whats next? Will Infowars.com be de-listed from Google altogether? Will pressure be put on Internet Service Providers to blacklist our website?

We will not sit idly by while monopoly corporations like Google and CNN strangle free speech.

Call YouTube and demand that they support free speech by removing the strikes from the Alex Jones Channel: +1 650-253-0000

Call Googles HQ and demand that they support the right to free expression under the First Amendment: +1 650-253-0000

We will also be organizing a protest outside Googles HQ in Austin Texas. Details will be announced on todays Alex Jones Show.

Infowars needs your support now more than ever.

Please help us by subscribing to our back-up channels on Youtube.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.