Peter Strzoks actions to stop Donald Trump from becoming president were in the interests of protecting national security and American democracy, according to his lawyer.

President Trump and conservatives are demonizing Strzok to discredit the Russia collusion probe  not because Strzok revealed numerous instances of bias in texts during both the Clinton email and Russia investigation, Aitan Goelman wrote in the USA Today on Tuesday.

Make no mistake: It is all part of a calculated political strategy to demonize Pete and the men and women of the FBI and the Department of Justice in order to pre-emptively discredit the results of special counsel Robert Muellers investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election, he wrote.

According to Goelman, Strzoks only real evidence of bias isnt found in his anti-Trump and pro-Hillary texts, but by his unwavering commitment to protect American democracy and national security shown over his career.

But his accusers arent entirely wrong  bias does exist in one area. Pete is deeply and passionately biased toward American democracy and the need for it to be vigorously protected. The messages show that our national security is paramount in Pete Strzoks mind, work and convictions, he added.

Thats an interesting defense, considering the Department of Justices Inspector General report found evidence of the complete opposite.

Several text messages from Strzok to his mistress, FBI lawyer Lisa Page, reveal not just clear animus against Trump, but an intent to use his FBI power to effect the outcome of the 2016 election, which effectively usurps democracy by circumventing the will of the American voter.

[Trumps] never going to become president, right? Right?! Page texted to Strzok August, 8th 2016.

Trump reacted to the IG reports findings on Sunday, calling Strzok a sick loser for his efforts to steer the elections outcome and cover for Clintons crimes.

Why was the FBIs sick loser, Peter Strzok, working on the totally discredited Mueller team of 13 Angry & Conflicted Democrats, when Strzok was giving Crooked Hillary a free pass yet telling his lover, lawyer Lisa Page, that well stop Trump from becoming President? Witch Hunt! he tweeted.

If Strzok cares so much about national security, as Goelman claims, then wheres the outrage over revelations that multiple foreign actors penetrated Clintons private server?

Meanwhile, still no evidence exists to suggest Trump colluded with the Russians to win the 2016 election, but that didnt stop Strzok and other FBI cronies from launching an unprecedented investigation into his campaign in July 2016.