The FBI had ample evidence to stop the massacre in Parkland, but it appears they were too busy investigating Russkie conspiracies.

Sure, 17 innocent people are now dead, but at least we secured some indictments on 13 Russian foreign nationals who will never be extradited!

We also now know, as Rod Rosenstein said during his announcement, people are not always who they appear to be on the internet.

These things need to be put into perspective!

PARKLAND, Fla.  Gov. Rick Scott called on the FBI director to resign Friday after the bureau admitted that it failed to investigate a tip in January about the Parkland school shooting suspect. The FBIs failure to take action against this killer is unacceptable, Scott said in a statement. The FBI has admitted that they were contacted last month by a person who called to inform them of Cruzs desire to kill people, and the potential of him conducting a school shooting. Seventeen innocent people are dead and acknowledging a mistake isnt going to cut it. An apology will never bring these 17 Floridians back to life or comfort the families who are in pain. The families will spend a lifetime wondering how this could happen, and an apology will never give them the answers they desperately need. Cruz, 19, faces 17 counts of premeditated murder in connection with the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. The FBI confirmed Friday that a tipster who was close to Cruz called the FBI on Jan. 5 and provided information about Cruzs guns, desire to kill people, erratic behavior and disturbing social media posts. FBI officials said the caller expressed concerns Cruz could attack a school. Robert Lasky, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the Miami field office, said agents in the Miami field office were never notified about the tip. The FBI has determined that protocol was not followed. The information was not provided to the Miami field office and no further investigation was conducted at that time, Lasky said Friday at a news conference. We will conduct an in-depth review of our internal procedures for responding to information that is provided by the public. The FBI was also notified about a comment on a YouTube video posted by a Nikolas Cruz last year. The comment simply said, Im going to be a professional school shooter,' Lasky said Thursday. No other information was included with that comment, which would indicate a time, location or true identity of the person who made that comment. How are we supposed to investigate this when we only have his name and his address??? Deputies were only called to his house 39 times in seven years! Did we mention we caught some Russians trolling during the 2016 election???