Nearly 200 Central American people who have been travelling north through Mexico for a month under the Trump administrations watchful eye in attempt to seek asylum in the US were stopped in their tracks when border inspectors said that a crossing facility did not have enough space to accommodate them.

Trump vowed last week to stop the annual Stations of the Cross Caravan, while cabinet members said they would deliver a swift response. The asylum seekers held firm, setting up a possible showdown.

About 50 asylum seekers were allowed past a gate controlled by Mexican officials to walk across a long bridge but were stopped at the entrance to the US inspection facility at the other end. They were allowed to wait outside the building, technically on Mexican soil, without word of when US officials would let them claim asylum.

Another 50 or so camped on blankets and backpacks in Tijuana outside the Mexican side of the crossing, prohibited from getting close to the US inspection building.

The asylum-seekers began the day with anticipation, travelling in red-and-white school buses under police escort to a beachfront rally in Tijuana, where a steel fence juts out into the Pacific Ocean. They sang the Honduran national anthem, and supporters on the San Diego side of the fence waved a Honduran flag.

After a final briefing from lawyers and minutes before they were to begin a short walk to the border crossing, the US Customs and Border Protection commissioner, Kevin McAleenan, announced that the San Ysidro border crossing, the countrys busiest, had reached capacity for people without legal documents and that asylum-seekers may need to wait in Mexico temporarily.

Donald Trump has commented frequently on the caravan since it started its journey in Mexico on 25 March near the Guatemala border and headed north to Tijuana. His broadsides came as his administration vowed to end what officials call legal loopholes and catch-and-release policies that allow people requesting asylum to be released from custody into the US while their claims make their way through the courts, which can take years.

The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has called the caravan a deliberate attempt to undermine our laws and overwhelm our system. The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, said asylum claims would be resolved efficiently and expeditiously and warned that anyone making false claims could be prosecuted.

The administrations stern warnings left organisers in disbelief that border inspectors were not ready for them.

They have been well aware that a caravan is going to arrive at the border, Nicole Ramos, an attorney working on behalf of caravan members, said at a news conference. The failure to prepare and failure to get sufficient agents and resources is not the fault of the most vulnerable among us. We can build a base in Iraq in under a week. We cant process 200 refugees. I dont believe it.

The San Ysidro border inspection facility can hold about 300 people, according to Pete Flores, Customs and Border Protections San Diego field office director, suggesting the bottleneck may be short-lived. The agency processed about 8,000 asylum cases from October to February, or about 50 a day.

Asylum-seekers are typically held for up to three days at the border and then turned over to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement. If they pass an asylum officers initial screening, they may be detained or released into the US with ankle monitors.

Asylum seekers did not appear to be discouraged by the delay.

Wendi Yaneri Garcia said she was confident she would be released while her asylum case is pending because she is travelling alone with her two-year-old son, who has been sick. She said that police in her hometown of Atlantida, Honduras, jailed her for protesting construction of a hydroelectric plant and that she received death threats after being released.

All I want is a place where I can work and raise my son, the 36-year-old said.

Elin Orrellana, a 23-year-old pregnant woman from El Salvador, said she was fleeing the violent MS-13 street gang, a favourite target of both Sessions and Trump because of their brutal killings in communities in the US. She said her older sister had been killed by the gang in El Salvador, so she is attempting to join other family members in the Kansas City area.

Fighting on is worth it, she said as she camped out for chilly night outside the border crossing.