Even in a nation with a long and noble history of brutal comedy roasts, the performance of Michelle Wolf at the White House correspondents dinner put the cat among the social media pigeons.



Twitter lit up on Saturday night and into Sunday with impassioned responses to the comics hyper-caustic japes at the expense of senior figures in the Trump administration. The annual event, traditionally conceived as a chance for government officials and reporters to let their hair down and poke fun at each other with some well-intentioned ribbing, descended into all-out acrimony.

At the center of the ruckus was White House press secretary Sarah Sanders who, sitting just feet away from the standup comic on the high table, was the butt of some of Wolfs sharpest barbs.

The jokes, including references to Sanders lying during press briefings and to her facial makeup, provoked furious criticism from several current and former White House figures as well as prominent journalists.

The roast prompted a walkout from White House adviser Mercedes Schlapp and her husband Matt Schlapp, who chairs the American Conservative Union. Enough of elites mocking all of us, he tweeted.

Sean Spicer, Sanders predecessor as Trumps press secretary, told the Guardian he thought Wolfs speech was absolutely disgusting. Trump, who boycotted the dinner for a second year, was restrained by comparison, initially criticizing the event for being a very big, boring bust ... the so-called comedian really bombed.

Several top political reporters agreed with the criticism from Republican politicians. That was in itself highly unusual, given the extreme estrangement of the press corps from a president who constantly berates them for what he calls fake news.

Andrea Mitchell of NBC News called for an apology for Wolfs speech, which she said was the worst since Don Imus embarrassed the Clintons by making reference to Bill Clintons extramarital affairs in an after-dinner address in 1996.

Two New York Times reporters expressed distress. Maggie Haberman, who has written some of the most excoriating dispatches on the Trump White House and has been attacked for it by the president, leapt to Sanders defense, praising her for not walking out. Peter Baker, the Timess chief White House correspondent, said: I dont think we advanced the cause of journalism tonight.

Wolf  who told the Guardian in 2016 four more years of Donald Trump jokes ... will drive me insane  answered Haberman on Twitter. Hey mags! she wrote. All these jokes were about [Sanders] despicable behavior. Sounds like you have some thoughts about her looks though?



She also claimed she had not been criticizing Sanders looks, writing: I said she burns facts and uses the ash to create a *perfect* smoky eye. I complimented her eye makeup and her ingenuity of materials.

The president of the White House Correspondents Association (WHCA), which organized the dinner, tried to assuage sore feelings.

Margaret Talev, senior White House correspondent for Bloomberg, told CNN she regretted that the 15 minutes of Wolfs speech are now defining four hours of what was a really wonderful, unifying night. And I dont want the cause of unity to be undercut.



Later on Sunday, Talev issued a statement in which she said the entertainers monologue was not in the spirit of the WHCA, which aimed to offer a unifying message.

Trump stayed on the subject on Monday, tweeting: The White House Correspondents Dinner is DEAD as we know it. This was a total disaster and an embarrassment to our great Country and all that it stands for. FAKE NEWS is alive and well and beautifully represented on Saturday night!

From the other direction, there was a mass of comment defending Wolfs first amendment right to speak as she saw fit and decrying the inability of so many people to take a joke. The actor and comedian Rosie ODonnell, one of Trumps betes noires, slammed those who called Wolfs speech vulgar by replying: Its a roast  truth telling is required.

The comedian Kathy Griffin, who was at the dinner, ridiculed those who said Sanders should not have been subjected to such disrespect: Sarah was there representing Trump, on the dais, at an event with a professional comic who was hired to do a roast.

Griffin knows a thing or two about the price comics can pay when they are deemed to have crossed a line. When she posted a photo of herself last year carrying a model of Trumps severed head, she was widely denounced and shunned.

The continuing furore over the dinner was, in the last analysis, thoroughly Trumpian. A few years ago, when Barack Obama was in the Oval Office, the White House correspondents dinner was criticized for being a cosy club.