Nearly 2 years into the Trump presidency, Fox News is still obsessed with Hillary Clinton

Share Nearly 2 years into the Trump presidency, Fox News is still obsessed with Hillary Clinton

Hillary Clinton has played no active role in our politics since she lost the 2016 presidential election. She has watched from the sidelines as Donald Trump writes one of the most scandal-plagued chapters of the American presidency.

But on Fox News, the character Hillary Clinton still plays a crucial part in the story.

I call her a character because the value Fox News finds in Clinton is largely a narrative one. Fox News has devoted itself to painting Trump as a protagonist, which can be hard given the scandals, the incompetence, and the cruelty. But with the perfectly crafted villain, anyone can be made a hero.

And that villain is, still, Hillary Clinton.

Since Trumps inauguration, Fox News has consistently covered Clinton more than other cable news channels  by a wide margin.

If you forced a robot to watch Fox News for the last six months  which is what the TV News Archive did  it wouldve seen Clintons face more than 2,000 times. Thats six times more than CNN.

And its not like Clinton has generated news. Rather, Fox News has often used Clinton as a non sequitur.

When Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen was confronted by protestors during dinner because of her role in the separation of immigrant families, Fox News host Sean Hannitys reaction was: Hillary? Nancy Pelosi? Elizabeth Warren? Where are you?

When Fox News ran out of Clinton news to cover in January, it sent Jeanine Pirro to a dry cleaner near Clintons home in Chappaqua, New York, where she asked strangers about Clintons pantsuits.

The day Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy retired, Hannity explored an alternate universe: Hillary Rodham Clinton now would be making now a second appointment in the terms of the judicial courts of American history. Hannity believed Trump would pick a replacement who would uphold the Constitution, which is sadly the exact opposite of what Democrats and people like Hillary would want.

This Hillary character  in which Fox News has found so much value  isnt a post-2016 invention, nor is it purely a Fox News creation. Rather, its the product of 30 years of character development by the media and her opponents, which has resulted in a blunt storytelling tool for the pro-Trump news network.

Shawn Parry-Giles, a University of Maryland communication professor, has been recording Clinton news segments since 1996. She now has cabinets full of VHS tapes capturing nearly 1,200 broadcast stories, which she wrote about in her 2014 book.

Once someones image gets cemented in popular culture or in the press, with contributions by opposition, its hard to break away from that, Parry-Giles told me.

For Clinton, that image was cemented very early. Parry-Giles argues that the most formative media moments for Clinton was a 1992 interview in during her husbands presidential campaign. Pushing back against the notion that shes staying with Bill for political reasons, Clinton said, Im not sitting here some little woman standing by my man like Tammy Wynette. The next day, she reiterated this sentiment:

Parry-Giles argues that this feminist characterization is what became entrenched as the true Hillary Clinton, and she would be penalized for any hints of evolving away from this image.

So when Clinton pursued her own political path, journalists believed anything that didnt resemble that character was inauthentic  a mask to hide the true Hillary because of her political ambition. And journalists believed it was their responsibility to unmask her, or at least tell their audience that what they were seeing was inauthentic.

As Fox Newss boss, Roger Ailes took the caricaturing of Clinton to extremes. As New York Times reporter Amy Chozick writes:

But it wasnt just Fox.

During the 2008 election, Parry-Giles found that several pundits insinuated Clinton had a lack of political authenticity in favor of political expediency. In a conversation with MSNBCs Tucker Carlson, the Los Angeles Timess Rosa Brooks said the last time they saw the real Hillary was in 1992, during the Tammy Wynette interview. CNNs Carol Costello openly pondered whether Clinton was choosing a mantle of feminism in favor of political masculinity. Carl Bernstein of Watergate fame wrote an biography of Clinton, in which he described Clinton as a very much camouflaged woman, even as he called her a highly qualified candidate.

This idea that she was always hiding something was the dominant theme of most Hillary Clinton coverage in recent years. During the 2016 election, the most-covered story on the front page of the New York Times was Clintons email scandal  covered far more than Trumps Muslim ban proposal.

On the evening news, Clintons emails got more airtime than all policy stories combined.

All of this built up the narrative that Clinton was hiding something  that she was deceiving the public, hiding her authentic self, for political power.

Once Clinton lost and Trump became president, much of this narrative went away.

After every presidential election, the losing candidate continues to play a role as the face of the losing party.

We can see this trend with both John McCain after his 2008 loss and Mitt Romney after his 2012 loss. But the residual coverage of Clinton far surpasses them on all networks.

Of all the cable networks, its Fox News that has gotten the most mileage from this character.

Last fall, congressional Republicans and Fox News pushed the Uranium One conspiracy  the idea Hillary Clinton personally benefited from sale of uranium to Russia. This is untrue.

When Fox News reports on FBI special counsel Robert Muellers investigation of the Trump campaigns ties with Russia, they make sure to bring Clinton into the story.

They say it was Clinton who started this witch hunt  that it was her campaign that paid for the fake Russian dossier, which eventually led to the investigation. (The Clinton campaign did pay for the dossier, but we dont know how much of a part it played in the initial FISA warrant, despite top Republicans trying to prove otherwise.)

Sometimes, they just use Clinton as a foil to show that, no matter what Trump did, Clinton is way worse.

When there is news that legitimately involves Clinton, Fox News ramps up its coverage.

The network was particularly interested in the Justice Departments inspector generals report, which looked at the FBIs handling of the Clinton email investigation.

Many Fox News pundits, including Hannity, believed it would show the FBI was protecting Clinton  that there was an alternate justice system for elites like the Clintons. (It showed no such thing.)

All of these narratives are complex. It requires a bit of mental gymnastics to justify Clinton being the topic of these stories.

But it all makes sense for Fox and its viewers.

What Fox wanted was the president having sex in a room Reagan wouldnt walk into without a jacket on, Lucianne Goldberg, a regular Fox News guest during Bill Clintons presidency, told Gabriel Sherman.

She added, Roger [Ailes] understands you must simplify, simplify, simplify.

And on Fox News, theres nothing simpler than Hillary.