White House Chief of Staff John Kelly has a message for Democrats, and for immigrants: Dont criticize the White Houses ideas for immigration policy. Be happy, instead, that President Trump is willing to allow even lazy immigrants to eventually become US citizens.

Lazy was how Kelly described immigrants who were eligible to apply for deportation protections and work permits under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, but who didnt have protections at the time Trump shut the program to new applicants in September 2017. Its estimated that 1.8 million immigrants in the US met the criteria for DACA, but as of September, only 690,000 had it.

The rest, Kelly told reporters Tuesday morning, were people that some would say were too afraid to sign up, others would say were too lazy to get off their asses.

And by proposing that those lazy immigrants should also be allowed to get legal status and eventual citizenship in the one-page framework the White House released before the State of the Union, Kelly said, the president was being incredibly generous  beyond what anyone could have imagined.

In Kellys view, Trumps generosity to DACA-eligible immigrants  even lazy ones  represents a huge compromise on the White Houses part. And he thinks its unfair that Democrats arent rushing to embrace the White House framework, and cave on the demands the administration is making  $25 billion in funding for a border wall and substantial cuts to future legal immigration (by slashing family-based immigration without any increases in other immigration categories to compensate)  in return.

Trump has painted himself as the true champion of DACA recipients, someone who genuinely wants to help immigrants whove grown up in the US become citizens. But to Kelly, thats a concession. This is why the administration has struggled to move negotiations forward on DACA: Trump and his staff cant get on the same page about whether legalization for anyone is something they really want  or something theyll grudgingly grant in exchange for something they really want.

Kelly is alluding to an argument Trump made during the State of the Union: that President Trump is being nicer to unauthorized immigrants who grew up in the United States than President Obama was. Obama created DACA, which was allowing 690,000 people to work legally as of September 2017; President Trump, on the other hand, proposed a framework that would allow all 1.8 million immigrants to apply for legal status and eventually citizenship.

As a matter of policy, there are a few problems with this. First of all, we dont yet know what the White House is actually proposing on legalization. The framework doesnt include any eligibility requirements. People have assumed that the proposal would cover anyone eligible for DACA, around 1.8 million people, and thats the number the White House uses  but we dont actually know this for sure.

Second, if the standard is endorsing a bill, Obama should get credit for endorsing both the DREAM Act in 2010 (which would have legalized about as many immigrants as Trumps proposal) and the comprehensive immigration reform proposal he supported in 2013 (which would have legalized many times more). Third, more than 690,000 people have had DACA at some point over the course of the five years the program was fully in effect, but some of them were unable to renew their two-year permits.

Arguably most importantly, Trump and Kelly are both comparing apples to oranges here  theyre comparing the number of people who could sign up for their program to the number of people who did sign up for Obamas. Theyre comparing DACA, for which 1.8 million were eligible but around half of whom applied, to their framework, in which 1.8 million are eligible and an unknown number might apply.

There are all sorts of reasons people didnt apply for (or were unable to renew) DACA, and most of those reasons would stop them from signing up for Trumps proposal as well. In a survey of unauthorized immigrant millennials, Tom Wong of UC San Diego found that the most common reason for not applying for DACA was cost: $495 to apply for DACA, and $495 again every two years to renew. Other immigrants werent aware they were eligible, or werent able to find an affordable lawyer  or any lawyer  who could vet their application and make sure they hadnt made any mistakes.

And yes, some of them were afraid. They were afraid because any mistakes on their application could result in their arrest and potential deportation. They were afraid because even if they successfully got DACA, their parents  many of whom lived at addresses the federal government now had via DACA applications  would still be vulnerable to arrest and deportation. And they were afraid because they knew that DACA was temporary, and that should a future president end the program, as Trump did, they would be vulnerable to deportation once again.

Kelly mocks that fear by calling it an excuse for laziness. And by doing that, he shows he doesnt fully understand how different it feels to have no protection, temporary protection, and permanent immigration status. In other words, he doesnt actually understand the stakes of the proposal hes calling generous  much less why the people whom its supposed to be generous to are rejecting it.