Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that did digital work for Donald Trumps presidential campaign in 2016 and has close ties to Steve Bannon and GOP megadonor Robert Mercer, is in hot water after several recent reports have raised ethical and potentially legal questions about its business practices.

The New York Times and Observer reported last week that Cambridge obtained private Facebook data  specifically, information on tens of millions of Facebook profiles  from an outside researcher who provided it to them in violation of his own agreement with Facebook.

Meanwhile, Channel 4 News in the UK has posted video in which Cambridge CEO Alexander Nix says his firm conducts dirty tricks such as trying to tape its candidates opponents accepting purported bribes or sending some girls around to the [opposing] candidates house. As a result of these reports, Cambridge announced Tuesday afternoon that it would suspend Nix pending an investigation.

Even before all this, though, Cambridge was under scrutiny in special counsel Robert Muellers investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election  both because Nix contacted Julian Assange of WikiLeaks that summer to discuss hacked Democratic emails and because of broader questions about whether Trumps digital operation collaborated with Russians in some way. (An ABC News report published Wednesday afternoon says Muellers team has been interviewing witnesses about the campaigns digital team in recent weeks.)

And while all this has been going on, theres also been a heated debate in the political world about just what in the world Cambridge Analytica even does  and whether its useful.

Are they an ingenious, sinister operation that harnessed big data to power Donald Trump to victory? Or are they  as many whove worked with them claim  sort of a joke? Or something in between?

Before there was Cambridge Analytica, there was the Strategic Communication Laboratories Group  SCL Group, for short. Founded in 1993 by a British ad man named Nigel Oakes, it is, basically, a messaging and PR firm thats done work for governments, politicians, and militaries around the world. Its clients included governments and politicians in Indonesia, Thailand, Kenya, the UK, and elsewhere.

SCL tends to describe its capabilities in grandiose and somewhat unsettling language  the company has touted its expertise at psychological warfare and influence operations. Its long claimed that its sophisticated understanding of human psychology helps it target and persuade people of its clients preferred message. Lately, its preferred buzzwords have focused on big data and psychographic profiling.

Yet articles from the Wall Street Journal and the Independent on SCLs work circa 1999 and 2000 describe what sound like relatively standard political messaging and PR work for the Thai and Indonesian regimes, alongside a penchant for secrecy and ethically questionable activities.

The stories allege, for instance, that SCL tried to place a story in an Indonesian paper based on a purported government document that was apparently fake, and how it repeatedly tried to operate through front and shell groups while obscuring where its funds were coming from. SCL also did more standard things like summarizing news reports for its clients and placing TV ads.

Perhaps most instructive is that both reports describe how in Thailand and Indonesia, SCL set up operations centers full of computers and TV screens that were designed to look quite impressive. Per the Observer, these rooms looked much like the villains computer-filled complex from the 1995 James Bond film Goldeneye. (And in fact, SCL hired the company that made that Goldeneye film set to put together a similar ops center.)

What those fancy facilities were actually used for, though, was far less clear. The Independent wrote that its primary function appears to have been cosmetic, and quoted an Indonesian source calling it just like a movie set to impress the clients.

Some of SCLs operations ended badly  the Indonesian president the firm worked for was deposed, and the Thai contract concluded with a falling-out and local reports that Oakes had violated the countrys immigration laws. Nevertheless, Oakes and SCL proved remarkably adept at convincing new clients to write them big checks.

After 9/11, the firm began to tout its alleged expertise at anti-terrorism and anti-jihadist messaging at a time when Western governments were eager to pay for such work. (Psych-ops was big business and people were just chucking money around, a source told the Observer.)

And finally, in 2013, SCL found a wealthy American whod give it a great deal of money indeed.

Around 2013, word of SCLs work reached the ears of Steve Bannon  and he was intrigued. Bannon was then running Breitbart News, but perhaps more importantly, he was a trusted political adviser to Robert and Rebekah Mercer, the father-daughter pair of conservative megadonors. Bannon connected SCL with the Mercers, and the British firm pitched a major expansion of its operation into US politics.

SCL claimed to be able to do a new type of political targeting that would be based on modeling individuals personalities (rather than just demographic traits like age, race, or gender, as is traditional). It would do so based on survey questions that measure the Big Five or OCEAN personality traits commonly used in psychology research  Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. (You can take the test here.)

It would also use modeling to extrapolate the personalities of people it didnt directly survey. Then, SCL claimed, it could tailor messaging to better target and persuade voters based on their particular personalities. This, SCL said, was the future of politics.

The Mercers agreed to provide $15 million for this project. To do so, they set up a new company mostly owned by Robert Mercer, with SCL Group executive Alexander Nix as the CEO. It would be named Cambridge Analytica (a name reportedly provided by Bannon, who would also have a stake in the company and serve as a vice president). But according to the New York Times, Cambridge was effectively a shell, and all its contract work would be carried out by the SCL Group.

At the core of this new effort would be a vast amount of data that an outside researcher harvested from tens of millions of peoples Facebook profiles  an effort Cambridge Analytica reportedly funded to the tune of $7 million. The data was matched with other records to construct personality profiles on millions of American voters, in hopes that Cambridge could better target them with customized political messaging.

In GOP political consulting circles, Cambridge soon gained a reputation as the Mercers somewhat odd pet project. The wealthy hedge fund family would reportedly demand that candidates hire Cambridge if they wanted Mercer money. And after working on various low-profile GOP political efforts in 2014, Cambridge landed a major job with a Mercer-funded Super PAC supporting Ted Cruzs presidential candidacy. But the gig went poorly  the Cruz team claimed Cambridges data was worthless and fought with them over money, according to a later New York Times report.

Eventually, Donald Trump emerged as the GOP nominee-in-waiting. And though Bannon was still a few months away from officially joining the Trump campaign, he made the introduction between Cambridge and Trumps team. (Bannon owned a stake in Cambridge and was being paid by it at the time.) Various reports name Trump staffers Paul Manafort, Jared Kushner, and Brad Parscale as involved in the decision to bring Cambridge on board, and on June 23, 2016, the campaign signed a contract with the firm.

Trumps digital team was run by Parscale out of an office in San Antonio, Texas, and Cambridge sent along 13 people to work with them there, Wired reported.

What did they do? Well, in the new Channel 4 News report, Nix, the Cambridge CEO, brags to someone he thought was a prospective client that we did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy (though he could be inflating the companys role).

However, one thing that both Trump aides and Cambridge staffers have since claimed the company did not do for Trump is use the firms fancy, futuristic-sounding psychographic personality modeling. People from both camps have said, in public statements and to reporters, that the Trump campaign chose to use the RNCs data file as its raw data, not those tens of millions of personal profiles matched with Facebook data that Cambridge obtained.

If this is true, Cambridges work for Trump resembled less sexy, more traditional political consulting. More specifically:

However, it should also be noted that, at the same time, other Cambridge employees were working for the Mercer-backed Super PAC Make America Number 1 that was supporting Trump. This work, they say, was firewalled off from Trumps campaign (as it legally has to to be).

In the end, Federal Election Commission filings show that the Trump campaign paid Cambridge $5.9 million over the rest of the campaign, and the Wall Street Journal reported that $3 million more went to Cambridge through Parscales firm.

During the campaign, Trumps digital operation was generally thought to be a joke, and Clintons team was portrayed as the ingenious data wizards with incredible algorithms. But after Clintons shocking loss, people naturally searched for explanations  and Cambridge Analytica was willing and eager to take credit. Not everyone bought it, though  the Spectators Paul Wood asked Are Cambridge Analytica brilliant scientists or snake-oil salesmen? in December 2016.

Of late, though, Cambridge has faced a new round of scrutiny over just how it got all that Facebook data in the first place  and Facebook, too, is facing major questions about what happened.

The Guardian actually broke much of this story all the way back in December 2015, when Cambridge was still backing Cruzs presidential campaign. But last week, a former Cambridge employee, Christopher Wylie, provided documents and first-person testimony in both a Times story (by Matthew Rosenberg, Nick Confessore, and Carole Cadwalladr) and an Observer story (by Cadwalladr) laying out, in far more detail, exactly what happened.

Both Facebook and Cambridge have faced enormous criticism for all this, and as the news was about to break, Facebook announced it would suspend Cambridge, SCL Group, Kogan, and Wylie from its platform.

However, despite Wylies dramatic claims that he and Cambridge broke Facebook, the harvesting of such data, even from users friends who didnt clearly consent, does seem to have been clearly allowed by Facebook at the time, and many app developers had similar practices. Indeed, Zeynep Tufekci argues that this is an all-too-natural consequence of Facebooks business model, since the company makes money by profiling us and then selling our attention to advertisers, political actors and others.

Its not clear whether any laws were broken here  Andrew Keane Woods runs down some possibilities at Lawfare  but regulators in the US and the UK both say theyre looking into the matter.

Importantly, it hasnt been shown Cambridge used this Facebook profile info in its work for the Trump campaign. (Wylie left the firm in late 2014, so he cant speak to that.)

Also, apropos of nothing, Aleksandr Kogan at one point changed his name to Dr. Spectre, but then changed it back.

Shortly after Wylie came forward publicly, Channel 4 News in the UK began to publish a series that was the result of a four-month investigation it conducted into Cambridge Analytica.

Channel 4 got a reporter to pose as a wealthy Sri Lankan interested in influencing politics in his home country  and secretly taped Cambridge executives, including eventually CEO Alexander Nix, as they pitched their services to him in a series of meetings.

It was Nix, hoping to close the deal, who said the most attention-getting things. He said the company operates in the shadows and that he looks forward to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you. He said that his company could have an operative try to videotape a politician they want to discredit accepting a bribe. They will offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, Nix said. Well have the whole thing recorded on cameras.

Another possibility, Nix continued, was to send some girls around to the candidates house  we have lots of history of things. He elaborated, We could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us, since theyre very beautiful. However, he did go on to say, Please dont pay too much attention to what Im saying because Im just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done. Nix also told the supposed prospective client that he uses an email service called ProtonMail and sets it to delete all his mail two hours after its read, so there will be no paper trail.

As the Atlantics David Graham notes, dirty tricks like these dont really have anything to do with big data or psychographic personality profiling. They make Cambridge sound rather more like an ordinary political consulting firm from the shadier side of the business. In any case, Nixs comments to Channel 4 have created enough of an uproar that Cambridge said Tuesday its suspending him pending an investigation. (What that means for Nixs position at SCL Group is not yet clear.)

Yet the new reports arent the only reason Cambridge is under scrutiny. One of the central focuses of special counsel Muellers investigation is whether anyone on Trumps team had inside knowledge about or played any role in the hacking and leaking of prominent Democrats emails in 2016.

And we learned last year, via reporting from the Wall Street Journals Rebecca Ballhaus, that Nix  Cambridges CEO  had contacted Julian Assange of WikiLeaks about just that topic, both just before and after Cambridge signed on with the Trump campaign.

Theres no evidence yet that Nixs contacts with Assange actually led to anything. But heres the timeline of what we know happened:

Both Nix and Assange have said, however, that these overtures never went anywhere. No evidence has emerged to disprove them. Still, this is yet another addition to the list of Trump associates who betrayed at least some interest in getting involved with hacked Democratic emails (and we should keep in mind that the email hackings themselves were a crime).

Finally, separately from Nixs contacts with Assange, there have been questions for months about whether the Trump campaigns data operation collaborated with Russian digital efforts to boost Trump or hurt Clinton in some way.

The Wall Street Journal reported in December that Mueller had requested Cambridge turn over the emails of any of its employees who worked on Trumps campaign. And anonymously sourced reports from McClatchy and Vanity Fair, among others, have said Muellers team is looking into whether Trumps digital operation provided information to Russians to help them determine which American voters to target with their own digital efforts.

As of now, there is no evidence that this occurred, and Muellers recent indictment of several Russian individuals and companies for conspiring to interfere with the election through their propaganda work makes no allegations that anyone on Trumps team was aware of their activities.

But since Cambridge was a major part of Trumps digital operation, there are some questions about them and their own ties to Russia.

Another odd note is that toward the end of the campaign, Trump foreign policy adviser Michael Flynn signed on to do consulting for the SCL Group. It is not clear what, if anything, Flynn did for them. However, and perhaps unrelatedly, some reports have suggested that Flynn was involved in yet another apparent effort to obtain Hillary Clintons deleted emails from Russian hackers in 2016, undertaken by Peter Smith, a Republican consultant unconnected to the Trump campaign. (Flynn has since become a cooperating witness for Robert Muellers investigation.)

Last but not least, another angle to all this is that as unsettling as Cambridges own claims about its futuristic capabilities may sound  I made Steve Bannons psychological warfare tool, the Observers headline thundered, quoting Christopher Wylie  many Republican political professionals whove worked with the firm have generally derided the quality of its work.

Take these tweets from three well-connected political reporters:

As Jonathan Swan says, this isnt just revisionist history. Complaints about Cambridge were legion during the 2016 campaign and spilled into the press in real time. Even those years-old articles about the SCL Group I mentioned above hint heavily that the firm may be vastly overselling its talents.

But whether Cambridge has really discovered some powerful new digital techniques, or whether theyre relatively ordinary political consultants with a penchant for hyperbolic rhetoric, the firm is now under more scrutiny than ever  and its future looks increasingly cloudy.