Its been a really, really bad week for Facebook.

We learned over the weekend that the personal data of 50 million user accounts was accessed by Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that specializes in targeted digital advertising. The data was acquired via a third-party app, and the company behind the app harvested information not just from the users of that app but also from the Facebook friends of users.

The fallout for Facebook has been rough. As my colleague Emily Stewart pointed out, the company is under siege from lawmakers, regulators, users, shareholders, and even its own employees. Its stock plummeted by 8 percent on Monday and another 5 percent on Tuesday, wiping away $35 billion of shareholder value.

Much of the coverage has focused on what happened and how it could have been prevented, but the question now is whether Facebook  and other big tech companies  will have to be regulated by the government in a way we never imagined before.

To answer this question, I reached out to Sally Hubbard, an expert in tech law and antitrust enforcement at the Capitol Forum, a nonpartisan legal investigative company that offers analysis to policymakers. I asked her if Facebook should have seen this coming and if antitrust laws are needed to regulate companies like Facebook and Google.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Were you surprised by the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica story?

Not at all. There are no data protection rules governing Facebook. There are rules that are going into effect later this year in Europe that might help prevent a problem like this, but in the US, its pretty much the Wild West when it comes to the so-called surveillance economy. And make no mistake about it: The business model of a company like Facebook is surveillance; theyre harvesting data, and that data can and will be misused.

What makes this story so problematic?

The biggest problem about this is not just that people were deceived about apps they were downloading; that is, they didnt fully understand how much of their private data they were exposing. The really egregious part of it is that the Facebook friends of these app users had their data accessed as well, and they never consented to any of it.

Its surprising whats been permitted in terms of privacy regulations, especially in this country. Whether its a third-party app thats harvesting the data or its Facebook itself, I dont think people have any understanding of the various ways in which their data is being collected. And they almost certainly have no idea how much Facebook knows about them and how their private data can be used in nefarious ways.

I dont think Facebook is going to do anything meaningful on a voluntary basis

Is there any way to use a platform like Facebook and not expose yourself to this sort of data breach?

Should Facebook have seen this coming? Are they negligent in not taking steps to prevent this?

Facebook definitely shouldve seen this coming; theyve known about it for years. They have a very Silicon Valley libertarian stance on all this, which is to say they just want to create a platform and take no responsibility for what happens on it. I dont know what they will do next, but they cannot claim to be surprised by what has happened. They understood that their data was being harvested in this way.

Is this the result of Facebook prioritizing growth over security and privacy at all costs?

Well, security and privacy directly contradict Facebooks business model. Their business model is a digital advertising business model, and the reason why Facebook and Google had more than a 90 percent share of growth in the digital advertising space last year is that they can target advertising in a way that no other site can because they have a 360-degree view of user activity, meaning theyre tracking users across the web and therefore know much more about their users than anyone else. So protecting private data is contrary to Facebooks whole reason for being.

Should we consider using antitrust laws to break up or at least heavily regulate Facebook?

You hear a lot of calls for breaking up big tech companies like Facebook, and while thats certainly an option, its done very rarely. There are other tools that enforcers can use. In the Microsoft case, for example, they didnt actually break up the company but instead put in place certain constraints on their ability to leverage their monopoly.

Ive written about the ways that Facebook prioritizes the content that keeps users on its platform and pushes content that doesnt keep users on its platform to the bottom. These engagement algorithms are causing immense polarization in our society, and I think theres an antitrust case to be made that they should be forced to change this approach for the health of our society. This wouldnt break up Facebook, but it would force them to adapt their business model.

Can we trust Facebook to self-regulate?

I dont think Facebook is going to do anything meaningful on a voluntary basis. Again, their entire business model depends upon access to and distribution of private personal data. So why would they take steps to undercut this? Theyre a corporation, after all, and their profits are tied to being able to gather this data.

A final point worth making is that although I called this a data breach earlier, its not really a breach at all. Facebook wasnt hacked by Cambridge Analytica or anyone else. They happily gave this data away and trusted that it wouldnt be used for malign purposes.

Thats right. Although Im not sure Id say they gave it away or sold it. Instead, they just allowed the free flow of data in this ecosystem, knowing that something like this could happen.