Linda Madison is exactly the sort of voter Donald Trump relied on to win in the 2016 election. A 64-year-old Lutheran who lives in a small town in Iowas rural south-western corner, she was once a fervent Democrat. She even campaigned for one-time Democratic presidential contender John Edwards.



But, she began to feel Democrats lost their way, and switched parties. She and the two men she was chatting with in a parking lot in Atlantic, Iowa, all think Trump is doing pretty well. The stock market is rising, talks with North Korea could work out, Trump hasnt messed up too badly, they said.

Instead, it is state lawmakers in Iowa that Madison now believes have swung too far to the right. A new Iowa law passed in May that bans abortion after a fetal heartbeat is detected, which is usually at about six weeks. That is before most women know they are pregnant. The law, Madison said, is awful.

Were going to see a lot more clothes hangers used and women dying, Madison said. I just dont go along with it. The law wont affect her, or her children, but she said she hoped her granddaughters would have the choice.

The law is now the subject of a court challenge, which proponents hope will take it all the way to the US supreme court and offer a chance to attack Roe v Wade, the landmark 1973 decision that guaranteed American women abortion rights. That is unlikely, given two similar laws in South Dakota and Arkansas were struck down, but possible, as Trump stacks federal courts with conservative judges.

Iowas abortion ban is one of the strictest in the industrialized world, rivaling countries like Ireland, where abortion is banned in nearly all circumstances. It follows a raft of recent restrictions on abortion in other states.

Supporters of womens healthcare and reproductive freedom are just mostly stunned that this would even be a topic, said Mark Stringer, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa. The ACLU is challenging the heartbeat law with Planned Parenthood of the Heartland. Its just so blatantly unconstitutional.

There are 206 US counties whose citizens voted for Barack Obama twice, only to swing to Trump in 2016. Thirty-one of those counties are in Iowa. One anti-abortion campaigner, Bob Vander Plaats of Iowas Family Leader, proudly said campaigners passed more pro-life legislation in 2017 than in any time in Iowas history.

Now, some voters wonder whether they will keep their reputation as a purple state, or if the states hard turn to the right will stick.

It made me worried, said Ardyth Gillespie, 73, a resident of rural Cass county, where Trump won by 39%.

It made me mad, her friend Sandy Sothman, a 59-year-old former healthcare worker responded. What we often hear is its a choice between life and abortion, said Sothman. And thats not true, its a womans choice.

Gillespie, 73, agreed, with the exception, I would say its a familys choice. She added, I dont think its something people talk about.

One pastor in a rural town she described as a staunchly Republican town, and a staunchly religious town, said women in her moderate congregation had brought their concerns to her. She described herself as generally speaking ... not pro-abortion, but she was against the law.

The pastor, like many others in this largely rural state dotted with small towns, preferred to remain anonymous to avoid alienating friends and neighbors.

I suspect a lot of what they say and think really has a lot to do with having control over womens bodies, she said about the bills supporters. Theyre frightened of giving women control over their own lives and their own choices.

There are people who are genuinely concerned, and genuinely feel abortion is a murder, the pastor said. I respect them, I see where theyre coming from.

In a local bar in Sioux City, in the states conservative north-west, a set of regulars refused to give their names. Instead, they casually discussed how women who are responsible better pee on a stick after sex. Another said abortion decisions should be 50-50, because men have to pay the child support. Two appeared to have reservations, but did not speak up.

Iowa hosts the nations first straw polls, which cast long shadows on presidential elections. The political theory of the moment holds that a wave of Democratic victories will wash across the United States because of laws like Iowas.

Margaret Jarosz, a campaign manager for a Democratic congressional candidate, said she was recently door-knocking in a working class neighborhood, when she encountered frustrated female voters.

I talked to like three Republican women, who said, Im done being a Republican, because of the law, said Jarosz. As a woman, its a really big healthcare issue.

Some rural voters, such as Carol Preston, said they are cautiously optimistic. I have Republican friends who are not going to vote Republican, said Preston. Theres a lot of women searching for women candidates  this is the year of the woman.

Others, like Jim Jordan, need more convincing.

Ive been a progressive Democrat my whole life, and heartbroken my whole life, he said. I appreciate the enthusiasm, he said, but, When youve been living in red Iowa for this long, youre suspicious of blue waves.