Several FBI agents would like Congress to subpoena them so that they can step forward and reveal dirt on former FBI Director James Comey and his Deputy Andrew McCabe, reports the Daily Caller, citing three active field agents and former federal prosecutor Joe DiGenova.

There are agents all over this country who love the bureau and are sickened by [James] Comeys behavior and [Andrew] McCabe and [Eric] Holder and [Loretta] Lynch and the thugs like [John] Brennanwho despise the fact that the bureau was used as a tool of political intelligence by the Obama administration thugs, former federal prosecutor Joe DiGenova told The Daily Caller Tuesday. They are just waiting for a chance to come forward and testify.

DiGenova  a veteran D.C. attorney who President Trump initially wanted to hire to represent him in the Mueller probe  only to have to step aside due to conflicts, has maintained contact with rank and file FBI agents as well as a counterintelligence consultant who interviewed an active special agent in the FBIs Washington Field Office (WFO)  producing a transcript reviewed by The Caller.

The subpoena is preferred, said diGenova, because when you are subpoenaed, Congress then pays...for your legal counsel and the subpoena protects [the agent] from any organizational retaliation.... they are on their own as whistleblowers, they get no legal protection and there will be organizational retaliation against them.

DiGenova and his wife Victoria Toensing have long represented government whistleblowers. Most recently, Toensing became council for William D. Campbell, the former CIA and FBI operative that was deeply embedded in the Russian uranium industry  only to be smeared by the Obama administration when he gathered evidence of two related bribery schemes involving Russian nuclear officials, an American trucking company, and efforts to route money to the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) through an American lobbying firm in order to overcome regulatory hurdles, according to reports by The Hill and Circa.

diGenova told the Daily Caller that asking for a Congressional subpoena is an intelligent approach to the situation given the vindictive nature of the bureau under Comey and McCabe. I have no idea how to read Chris Ray who is not a leader and who has disappeared from the public eye during this entire crisis. You know he may be cleaning house but if hes doing so, hes doing it very quietly.

I dont blame them, added diGenova. I dont blame the agents one bit. I think that the FBI is in a freefall. James Comey has destroyed the institution he claims to love. And it is beyond a doubt that it is going to take a decade to restore public confidence because of Comey and Clapper and Brennan and Obama and Lynch.

Meanwhile, the agent from the Washington field office says that rank and file FBI agents are fed up and desperately want the DOJ to take action, according to transcripts of the interview.

Every special agent I have spoken to in the Washington Field Office wants to see McCabe prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. They feel the same way about Comey, said the agent.

The administrations are so politicized that any time a Special Agent comes forward as a whistleblower, they can expect to be thrown under the bus by leadership. Go against the Muslim Brotherhood, youre crushed. Go against the Clintons, youre crushed. The FBI has long been politicized to the detriment of national security and law enforcement.

The special agent added, Activity that Congress is investigating is being stonewalled by leadership and rank-and-file FBI employees in the periphery are just doing their jobs. All Congress needs to do is subpoena involved personnel and they will tell you what they know. These are honest people. Leadership cannot stop anyone from responding to a subpoena. Those subpoenaed also get legal counsel provided by the government to represent them.

Meanwhile, the former Trump administration official who spoke with The Caller explained that the FBIs problems go way beyond Comey and McCabe.

They ruined the credibility of the bureau and the technical ability of the bureau, so systemically, over the past several years, theyre worried about their organizational reputation and their professional careers.