Police in the US state of Maryland are responding to reports of several people shot at a high school.

Gunfire was reported on Tuesday morning at Great Mills High School in St Mary's County, about 65 miles (104km) south-east of Washington DC.

St Mary's County Sheriff's Office says the incident has been contained. Some 1,600 students attend the school in the community of Great Mills.

It comes a month after a high school shooter killed 17 in Parkland, Florida.

According to sheriff's office spokeswoman Cpl Julie Yingling, three people were shot, including the shooter.

All three people have been transported to hospital, and no fatalities have been reported.

WJLA News reports that the shooter was "taken down" by a school security officer after the incident began.

"There has been an incident at Great Mills High School", the St Mary's County Sheriff wrote on Twitter.

"Parents please DO NOT respond to the school," officials added, telling parents to report to nearby Leonardtown High School School to reunite with their children.

The shooting happened early in the morning as classes were first getting started, a sheriff's spokeswoman told BBC News.

"There has been a tragic shooting at Great Mills High School," the school district confirmed in a statement on Twitter.

"The St Mary's County Sheriff is on the scene and the event is contained," the district's statement added.

US students in mass walkout for gun reform

One Twitter user who appears to be a student at the school, has been posting about the gunshots.

"My school is on a very real lockdown threat and there's already someone possibly dead."

"Please pray for us," wrote @davism0llie.

Federal agents from the FBI, and the bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives - as well as local police - are at the school investigating the incident.

Congressman Steny Hoyer, who represents the district, tweeted that he is "closely monitoring reports of an incident", and advised that all people on the scene follow instructions from law enforcement.

The shooting comes four days before the March for Our Lives rally for student safety inspired by the 14 February massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in southern Florida.