Two major airlines, Delta and United, announced on Saturday they would cut ties with the National Rifle Association (NRA), adding to the escalating fallout from the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school that left 17 people dead.



In similarly worded statements, Delta and United said they would end discount programs for NRA members.

The airlines join more than a dozen businesses, including the car hire brands Hertz, Budget and Avis, the hotel chains Best Western and Wyndham Hotels and the software firms Symantec and Norton, that have ended various loyalty and discount schemes for the NRAs 5 million-strong membership.

The insurer Chubb has also dropped cover for NRA Carry Guard insurance, which insures gun owners for legal and other costs if they shoot someone and claim self-defense.

The pressure group Everytown for Gun Safety, which has been pressing Chubb for months, applauded the move. Everytown, with its fellow gun control group Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, is also urging Apple, Amazon and Google to remove the NRAs TV service from their streaming platforms.

This wave of NRA boycotts will not stop  Americans have had enough of NRA lobbyists and their deadly agenda, said Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. Companies dont want to do business with the gun lobby, and lawmakers shouldnt either.

The NRA has successfully deterred legislative attempts to restrict gun use following mass shootings and has absorbed backlashes in the past, such as the outcry that followed the massacre of 20 young children and six adults in at Sandy Hook elementary school in Connecticut in 2012.

Some companies, such as FedEx, have refused to end relationships with the NRA. Those firms that have changed a peripheral issue such as member discounts are unlikely, by themselves, to rattle the powerful gun lobby.

However, the sustained pressure following the 14 February shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school in Florida has differed from the aftermath of previous mass shootings, catching several Republican politicians in its wake.

Donald Trump has said he backs an idea to raise the age requirement to buy an assault rifle to 21, a stance backed by the Florida governor, Rick Scott, and many of his fellow Republicans in the state legislature. The NRA opposes raising the age requirement from 18.

Trump has also called for enhanced background checks and raised the possibility of arming teachers, paying them some sort of bonus to carry weapons and saying: Our schools need to be hardened, not softened up.

On Saturday afternoon, Trump tweeted: Armed Educators (and trusted people who work within a school) love our students and will protect them. Very smart people. Must be firearms adept & have annual training. Should get yearly bonus.

The president predicted that if such measures were adopted shootings will not happen again thanks to a big & very inexpensive deterrent. He also said such moves would be up to states.

The Associated Press reported that the president told aides the Florida shooting made no sense. It also said the Fox News host Geraldo Rivera had advised Trump on gun policy. The savagery of the wounds inflicted by the AR-15 shocked and distressed him, Rivera was quoted as saying.

Student survivors of the Florida shooting have spearheaded the new push for gun control legislation. They have been met with fierce resistance from gun rights groups and purveyors of misinformation, who have falsely claimed the grieving students were actors.

Speaking at the CPAC conference held near Washington DC last week, Wayne LaPierre, the veteran chief executive of the NRA, warned that opportunists had used the shooting to smear the gun lobby group.

LaPierre warned his conservative audience that a tidal wave of new European socialists standing as Democrats would use a gun control agenda as part of a bid to eradicate all individual freedoms in the US.

The reach of the NRA beyond the issue of guns was demonstrated at CPAC when it awarded the Charlton Heston Courage Under Fire award to Ajit Pai, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, for his controversial but successful push to repeal the agencys net neutrality rules.

Ajit Pai is the most courageous, heroic person that I know, said Dan Schneider, executive director of the American Conservative Union.

He has received countless death threats. His property has been invaded by the George Soros crowd. He has a family, and his family has been abused in different ways.

The award, a handmade flintlock rifle, has previously been bestowed upon Mike Pence, the vice-president.

Another former winner is David Clarke, a former sheriff in Milwaukee whose tenure was marked with several investigations and lawsuits over the deaths of people in custody, including a man who died of dehydration and a pregnant inmates newborn child.