Democrats have a tall order in the 2018 Senate elections. They have to defend 10 seats in states that Donald Trump won  and on top of that, if they want to reclaim control of the Senate, they have precious few opportunities to take seats from Republicans.

At this point, Democrats need more or less a straight flush to win the Senate: They have to hold those 10 seats, some of which are in very hostile territory, and then pick off two states from Republicans. The two obvious candidates are Nevada, where Dean Heller is already in clear trouble, and Arizona, where Jeff Flake is retiring and Democrat Kyrsten Sinema already has a strong showing in the early polls.

After that, things would have to get weird for Democrats to make bigger gains in the campaign for the Senate. Some of the ingredients are there: They have a popular former governor, Phil Bredesen, running in Tennessee. Texas is the Democratic white whale and they have a young, charismatic candidate, Beto ORourke, to challenge Ted Cruz. Maybe Republicans will self-sabotage in the South again, if Chris McDaniel can top Cindy Hyde-Smith among Republicans.

All those seats are very long shots. The degenerates who gamble on politics give Republicans the upper hand in keeping the Senate for a reason. But there is a path for Democrats to win the Senate. It starts with winning eight or nine or all 10 of those seats theyre defending  and then winning two or three or four of the Republican-held seats on this list here.

Who is the Republican? Dean Heller, who was appointed to the Senate in 2011. Perhaps the biggest loser of the Obamacare repeal debate, after he stood beside extremely popular Republican Gov. Brian Sandoval and said he wouldnt support any plan that Sandoval didnt  and then, a few months later, did exactly that.

Who is the Democrat? Rep. Jacky Rosen. First elected to Congress in 2016.

How much do people love/hate Trump here? Heller holds the unfortunate-for-him distinction of being the only Senate Republican up for reelection in a state that Hillary Clinton won. Plus, Nevada is a state with an increasingly active Latino- and labor-dominated Democratic base. Per Gallup (our source for the whole post), Trump is at 42 percent approval and 53 percent disapproval. According to Morning Consult, our other go-to source, Heller himself is looking at 37 percent approval and 40 percent disapproval.

Tell me the weird stuff. Seriously, Obamacare repeal was a debacle for Heller. First, he held a press conference with Sandoval and proudly declared that for his state, which had expanded Medicaid to cover tens of thousands of poor people, the governors opinion would be the deciding factor  and Sandoval did not support repeal. But then after some browbeating from Trump and some reports that outside GOP money would help out Heller if he went along with the party, the senator ended up voting for several different repeal plans. Truly a profile in courage.

This is in a state that voted for Clinton, 48 percent to 46 percent, over Trump. The road was already hard for Heller. He didnt make it any easier on himself.

So do we know whos going to win? The one poll we have put Heller up a single point over Rosen, his lesser-known challenger. Officially, from the Cook Political Report, its a toss-up. But Dean is in for a very long year.

Who are the Republicans? Poor Jeff Flake is retiring. Running to replace him for the GOP is mainstream favorite Martha McSally, conservative insurgent Kelli Ward, and anti-immigrant, Trump pardonreceiving ex-sheriff Joe Arpaio.

Who is the Democrat? Rep. Kyrsten Sinema has a pretty clear path to the Democratic nomination. Elected in 2012, she served in the state legislature before that.

How much do people love/hate Trump here? Trump squeaked out a 49-46 win in 2016  and it was immediately on the 2018 Democratic radar.

Tell me the weird stuff. Well, Flake, you may remember, has given some very stern Senate floor speeches warning us what a danger to the republic Trump is while voting for his agenda almost every time. Still, its an odd dynamic to have the outgoing Republican senator be such a noted critic of Trump.

Meanwhile, did I mention that Arpaio is a convicted criminal who received Trumps first pardon? Ward is a Breitbart favorite who has been attacked by the GOP establishment for supposedly entertaining chemtrails conspiracies. McSally, on a much more serious note, recently revealed she was sexually abused in high school and is the establishment favorite.

So do we know whos going to win? Well, it probably depends a bit on who wins the Republican primary. But recent polls have shown Sinema leading all three of her possible challengers.

McSally is the most likely to make it a tight race  if she makes it out of the primary. That polling is all over the place: One survey put McSally up 10, another had Ward up 9. Arpaio looks like a long shot either way. The primary is August 28.

Who is the Republican? Sen. Bob Corker is retiring. Stepping up to replace him is Rep. Marsha Blackburn. First elected way back in 2002. Notably led the special House GOP committee to investigate Planned Parenthood. She has a couple of challengers, technically, but shes the presumptive nominee given shes got the important Trump endorsement and all of the Washington establishments support.

Who is the Democrat? Former Gov. Phil Bredesen. Served two terms, leaving office in 2011. Mayor of Nashville before that. Oddly, Bredesen has something of a mixed record on health care, having overseen a dramatic rollback of the states Medicaid rolls as governor, which is a little off message for Democrats in a year when theyre hoping to make health care a winning issue.

How much do people love/hate Trump here? Were back in more comfortable Trump territory. The president has 50 percent approval and 44 percent disapproval.

Tell me the weird stuff. Well, its weird that Tennessee is on this list at all, right? Bredesen has been out of politics for the better part of a decade, but the last time he did run here, he won 69 percent of the vote. Bob Corker even likes the guy! Blackburn is a solid, pro-Trump conservative in all respects, though itll be interesting to see how abortion plays out here  shes a darling of the anti-abortion crowd and a top villain among abortion rights groups.

So do we know whos going to win? The early polling is strong for Bredesen, giving him a 5-point advantage on average. But he has unusually strong name ID, and Blackburn is still introducing herself to the statewide electorate. This one is going to be close.

Who are the Republicans? Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith was tapped to replace outgoing Sen. Thad Cochran, who was very, very old. But she has a real challenger on her hands, facing conservative insurgent Chris McDaniel, who wants to win a Senate seat, any Senate seat will do, here in the Magnolia State.

Who is the Democrat? Mike Espy. Former Congress member. Former agriculture secretary. Hes been out of politics for 25 years.

How much do people love/hate Trump here? Trump won comfortably, but maybe a little less comfortably than you might remember: 57 percent to Clintons 40 percent. Right now, his standing in the state is officially meh: 48 percent approve and 46 percent disapprove. Hyde-Smith, who was state agriculture commissioner before heading to the Senate, hasnt been around long enough to really count as an incumbent.

Tell me the weird stuff. The backdrop to this race is the 2014 Senate race when McDaniel tried to unseat Cochran. There were two break-ins (one at a nursing home where Cochrans wife resided, another at a courthouse), some criminal convictions, a suicide, allegations of Cochrans campaign paying off black voters. It was a righteous mess, and some McDaniel supporters still believe the election was stolen from him. The establishment hates McDaniel as a result.

Espy, meanwhile, was forced to resign as Bill Clintons agriculture secretary after a very long list of corruption indictments. He was eventually acquitted and it was 20 years ago, but that is still quite a lot of baggage to bring to a political campaign.

Also, Mississippi has the totally bizarre jungle primary, where every candidate will be on the ballot in November and then, if nobody gets 50 percent, the top two candidates go to a runoff.

So do we know whos going to win? Its clear that Alabama was a very special case. But theres still some weirdness in Mississippi. Hyde-Smith will probably, if she bests McDaniel in the initial election, remain in the Senate. The most recent polling shows her pulling away from him on the GOPs side.

Espy could make it competitive with Hyde-Smith  one poll showed him trailing her by just 6 points  and he would actually be the favorite against McDaniel. But it probably will not come to that. After all, Washington Republicans have never let a primary election get away from them and put a supposedly safe seat in jeopardy.

Who is the Republican? Sen. Ted Cruz, the Republican who came the closest to toppling Trump in the 2016 primaries. Theres an old joke about Cruz being the Zodiac killer. No, I dont get it either. Star of the failed 2013 government shutdown over Obamacare.

Who is the Democrat? Rep. Beto ORourke, who is as handsome as Ted Cruz is conservative. He was first elected in 2012.

How much do people love/hate Trump here? Well, Trump won here by the narrowest margin in 20 years. Hes, uh, deep underwater these days: just 39 percent approval with 54 percent (!) disapproval. Cruz himself is faring much better: 49 percent approval and just 34 percent disapproval. Texas likes Ted!

Tell me the weird stuff. Ah, the dream of purple Texas. Democrats keep convincing themselves theyre this close to winning statewide here and making a Republican stronghold a swing state. But so far, they havent been able to do it. Beto (we call him Beto) is the hero tasked with the job in 2018.

As for the campaign itself, well, Cruzs campaign is attacking ORourke for allegedly making his name sound more Hispanic, which a few people have pointed out is kinda weird for a guy whose first name is Rafael but goes by Ted. Now Beto wants to debate Cruz in Spanish.

So do we know whos going to win? Cruz, probably. Hes popular. Cook says this is Likely R. But there was one poll that found Beto trailing Ted by just 3 points.

Who is the Republican? Sen. Deb Fischer was first elected in 2012. Reading her policy positions is like a caricature of mainstream Republican.

Who is the Democrat? Jane Raybould, Lincoln City Council member and former candidate for lieutenant governor, won the May 15 primary.

How much do people love/hate Trump here? Trump won by, my goodness, 25 points in 2016. Nebraskans are still generally positive about the president  49 percent approval, 47 percent disapproval  but not as much as before. Fischer seems well liked: 43 percent say they approve and 35 percent say they disapprove.

Tell me the weird stuff. To be honest, I only added it to the list because Cook rated Nebraska as merely Likely R instead of Solid R, putting it in the same tier as more obviously competitive races like Texas and Mississippi. Kinda weird!

Raybould is raising some money and has run statewide before, and, I guess, Trump isnt hugely popular here. If youre looking for a wild card, Nebraska is one of those states that could be hurt by the presidents escalating trade war. Raybould, for her part, is promising to be an independent voice while slamming the incumbent as a Washington Republican.

So do we know whos going to win? Fischer, almost certainly. Her campaign found her leading Raybould by 17 points a few months back. But if 2018 starts to get really weird, well have to check back in with the Cornhuskers.