Donald Trump will announce death penalties for drug dealers on Monday.

A top administration official said on Sunday the presidents plan to combat opioid drug addiction nationwide, to be announced in New Hampshire on Monday, calls for the death penalty for drug traffickers where appropriate under current law.

New Hampshire has been hit hard by the opioid crisis, a fact Trump acknowledged last August when he said: We have the drug lords in Mexico that are knocking the hell out of our country. They are sending drugs to Chicago, Los Angeles, and to New York.

Up in New Hampshire  I won New Hampshire because New Hampshire is a drug-infested den  [it] is coming from the southern border.

The comment caused offence in the state, Democratic senator Maggie Hassan responding: Instead of insulting people in the throes of addiction, [Trump] needs to work across party lines to actually stem the tide of this crisis.

The stop in New Hampshire will be Trumps first visit as president. He won the states 2016 Republican primary but narrowly lost in the general election to Hillary Clinton. Last week, retiring senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a persistent Trump critic, told New Hampshire Republicans that someone needs to stop Trump  and it could be him if no one else steps up.

In recent weeks the president, who aims to be seen as tough on crime, has been highlighting his preference for the ultimate penalty for drug dealers.



The president told the audience at a Pennsylvania rally this month that countries like Singapore have fewer issues with drug addiction because they harshly punish dealers. He argued that a person in the US can get the death penalty or life in prison for shooting one person, but that a drug dealer who potentially kills thousands can spend little or no time in jail.



The only way to solve the drug problem is through toughness, Trump said.

He made similar comments at a White House summit on opioids: Some countries have a very, very tough penalty  the ultimate penalty. And, by the way, they have much less of a drug problem than we do. So were going to have to be very strong on penalties.

Trump also wants Congress to pass legislation reducing the amount of drugs needed to trigger mandatory minimum sentences for traffickers who knowingly distribute certain opioids, said Andrew Bremberg, Trumps domestic policy director, who briefed reporters on the plan Trump is scheduled to unveil.

The president will be joined by first lady Melania Trump, who has shown an interest in the issue, particularly as it pertains to her focus on child welfare.

Death for drug traffickers and mandatory minimum penalties for distributing certain opioids are two elements under the part of Trumps plan that deals with law enforcement and interdiction to break the international and domestic flow of drugs into and across the US. Other parts of the plan include broadening education and awareness and expanding access to proven treatment and recovery efforts.

The justice department said the federal death penalty is available for limited drug-related offenses, including violations of the drug kingpin provisions of federal law.



Doug Berman, a law professor at Ohio State University, said it was not clear death sentences for drug dealers, even for those whose product causes multiple deaths, would be constitutional. Berman said the issue would be litigated extensively and would have to be definitively decided by the US supreme court.

Opioids, including prescription opioids, heroin and synthetic drugs such as fentanyl, killed more than 42,000 people in the US in 2016, more than any year on record, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Trump has declared that fighting the epidemic is a priority for the administration but critics say the effort has fallen short.

Last October, Trump declared the crisis a national public health emergency, short of the national state of emergency sought by a presidential commission he put together.

We call it the crisis next door because everyone knows someone, said Kellyanne Conway, a Trump senior adviser. This is no longer somebody elses community, somebody elses kid, somebody elses co-worker.

Other elements of the plan Trump will discuss on Monday call for a public awareness campaign, which Trump announced last October, and increased research and development through public-private partnerships between the federal National Institutes of Health and pharmaceutical companies.

Bremberg said the administration also has a plan to cut the number of filled opioid prescriptions by a third within three years.