According to a recent poll, most Americans dont think special counsel Robert Muellers investigation has uncovered any crimes.

But the truth is that Muellers team has either indicted or gotten guilty pleas from 19 people and three companies  that we know of.

That group is composed of four former Trump advisers, 13 Russian nationals, three Russian companies, one California man, and one London-based lawyer. Five of these people (including three former Trump aides) have already pleaded guilty.

None of the charges against Americans or Trump advisers so far have directly alleged that they worked with Russia to interfere with the campaign.

Michael Flynn and George Papadopoulos have pleaded guilty to making false statements about their contacts with Russians to investigators. Paul Manafort and Rick Gates were hit with tax, money laundering and other charges that relate to their work for the government of Ukraine and a Russia-affiliated Ukrainian political party.

Other reported focuses of Muellers investigation  such as the hacking and leaking of prominent Democrats emails and potential obstruction of justice by the Trump administration  have not resulted in any indictments yet.

Also, its possible that there are more charges we dont know about  Papadopouloss arrest last July was kept secret for three months after it happened. Here, though, are the indictments and plea deals that are public.

1) George Papadopoulos, former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, pleaded guilty in October to making false statements to the FBI.

2) Michael Flynn, Trumps former national security adviser, pleaded guilty in December to making false statements to the FBI.

3) Paul Manafort, Trumps former campaign chair, was indicted in October in Washington, DC on charges of conspiracy, money laundering, and false statements  all related to his work for Ukrainian politicians before he joined the Trump campaign. Hes pleaded not guilty on all counts. Then, in February, Mueller filed a new case against him in Virginia, with tax, financial, and bank fraud charges.

4) Rick Gates, a former Trump campaign aide and Manaforts longtime junior business partner, was indicted on similar charges to Manafort. But in February he agreed to a plea deal with Muellers team, pleading guilty to just one false statements charge and one conspiracy charge.

5-20) 13 Russian nationals and three Russian companies were indicted on conspiracy charges, with some also being accused of identity theft. The charges related to a Russian propaganda effort designed to interfere with the 2016 campaign. The companies involved are the Internet Research Agency, often described as a Russian troll farm, and two other companies that helped finance it. The Russian nationals indicted include 12 of the agencys employees and its alleged financier, Yevgeny Prigozhin.

21) Richard Pinedo: This California man pleaded guilty to an identity theft charge in connection with the Russian indictments, and has agreed to cooperate with Mueller.

22) Alex van der Zwaan: This London lawyer pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI about his contacts with Rick Gates and another unnamed person based in Ukraine.

So far, no Trump associates have been specifically charged with any crimes relating to helping Russia interfere with the 2016 election.

The closest weve come to that is that both Papadopoulos and Flynn both now admit that they lied to the FBI about their contacts with people connected to the Russian government. (Papadopouloss contacts took place before the election, and Flynns after it.)

Papadopoulos: Back in April 2016, Papadopoulos got a tip from a foreign professor he understood to have Russian government connections that the Russians had dirt on Clinton in the form of thousands of emails. He then proceeded to have extensive contacts with the professor and a Russian woman, during which he tried to plan a Trump campaign trip to Russia.

But when the FBI interviewed Papadopoulos about all this in January 2017, he repeatedly lied about what happened, he now admits. So he was arrested in July, and later agreed to plead guilty to a false statements charge and start cooperating with Muellers probe.

Flynn: In December 2016, during the transition, Flynn spoke to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about sanctions that President Barack Obama had just placed on Russia, and about a planned United Nations Security Council vote condemning Israeli settlements.

But when FBI agents interviewed him about all this in January 2017, Flynn lied to them about what his talks with Kislyak entailed, he now admits. In December 2017, Flynn pleaded guilty to a false statements charge and began cooperating with Muellers investigation.

Both Papadopoulos and Flynn may now be providing Muellers team with information that could incriminate others in Trumps orbit. But we havent seen the fruits of their cooperation just yet.

Then, this February, Muellers team indicted 13 Russian nationals and three Russian companies in connection with alleged interference with the 2016 campaign.

The indictments main emphasis is on the propaganda efforts of one Russian group in particular: the Internet Research Agency. That groups operations  which included social media posts, online ads, and organization of rallies in the US  were, the indictment alleges, often (but not exclusively) aimed at denigrating Hillary Clintons presidential candidacy and supporting Donald Trumps.

The specific charges in the case include one broad conspiracy to defraud the United States count, but the rest are far narrower  one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and bank fraud, and six counts of identity theft. It is highly unlikely that the indicted Russian individuals will ever come to the US to face trial, but one company involved, Concord Catering, is fighting back in court.

No Americans have been charged with being witting participants in this Russian election interference effort. However, one American, Richard Pinedo of California, pleaded guilty to an identity fraud charge, seemingly because he sold bank account numbers created with stolen identities to the Russians. Pinedo agreed to cooperate with the probe as part of his plea deal.

Then there are former Trump campaign aides Paul Manafort and Rick Gates. The pair were indicted by Muellers team indicted last October in Washington, and Mueller piled on yet more charges against them in Virginia this February.

The charges against the pair related to nearly a decade of foreign work they did for the Ukrainian government and Ukrainian politicians before they joined Trumps campaign.

Manafort and Gates allegedly acted as unregistered agents for the Ukrainians, generating tens of millions of dollars in income, which they then laundered through scores of United States and foreign corporations, partnerships, and bank accounts, per their indictment. They were also accused of failing to appropriately disclose their foreign work and foreign assets, and of committing tax, financial, and bank fraud crimes, some of which took place as recently as last year.

The specific charges Manafort is currently facing are:

Manafort did his foreign work for Ukraines pro-Russia political faction, but so far, it is not clear if these charges have any connection to the topic of Russian interference with the 2016 campaign. He has pleaded not guilty on all counts.

Gates, meanwhile, has since agreed to a plea deal in which hell cooperate with Muellers team. Accordingly, the many charges originally brought against him were dropped, except for two he pleaded guilty to  one conspiracy to defraud the United States charge, and a false statements charge. (With the latter, Gates admitted lying to Muellers team during a meeting this February.)

Finally, the probe into Manafort and Gatess Ukrainian work has ensnared one other person so far: Alex van der Zwaan.

Van der Zwaan was a lawyer for the London office of the New York law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. The son-in-law of a Russian oligarch, he worked with Manafort and Gates on behalf of Ukraines government in 2012, to write a report defending the governments prosecution of a former prime minister.

In November 2017, Muellers investigators interviewed van der Zwaan about his Ukrainian work. But according to the charging document, van der Zwaan: