Donald Trump indicated on Tuesday that Rear Admiral Ronny Jackson, his White House doctor and nominee to be secretary of veterans affairs whose confirmation has been indefinitely delayed in the Senate, was set to drop out of consideration.

I dont want to put a man through a process that is too ugly like this and its disgusting, the president said, addressing reporters alongside French president Emmanuel Macron. Ill stand behind him. Hes fine man but its his choice.

It would be totally [Jacksons] decision whether to withdraw, Trump said.

Allegations began surfacing late last week involving Adm Jacksons workplace practices. Two aides granted anonymity to discuss the situation who spoke to the Associated Press discussed claims of inappropriate behavior and over-prescribing prescription drugs. Before Trump spoke alongside Macron, Senate leaders delayed indefinitely Adm Jacksons confirmation hearing, which had been set for Wednesday, citing serious allegations.

Trump said: This person Admiral Jackson, Dr Jackson, is a wonderful man. I said to him what do you need it for?

Jackson earlier told an NBC reporter he had been looking forward to the hearing tomorrow. Kind of disappointed that its been postponed, but Im looking forward to getting it rescheduled and answering everybodys questions.



Asked to comment on the allegations, a hostile work environment, the allegations about potentially drinking on the job, over-prescribing medication, Jackson said: Im looking forward to the hearing, so we can sit down and I can explain everything to everyone and answer all the senators questions.

Asked if he was withdrawing his nomination, he did not answer.

At his press conference, Trump complained at length about what he called obstruction by Democrats in the Senate, a subject on which he has frequently expressed frustration. On Monday, CIA director Mike Pompeo, Trumps nominee for secretary of state, narrowly cleared the Senate foreign relations committee.

The Dems will not approve hundreds of good people, the president wrote on Twitter, including the Ambassador to Germany. They are maxing out the time on approval process for all, never happened before. Need more Republicans!

On Tuesday, Trump repeated that Jackson was an extraordinary person, his family extraordinary successful, great doctor, great everything and he has to listen to the abuse that he has to. I wouldnt, if I were him. Actually in many ways Id love to be him but the fact is I wouldnt do it, I wouldnt do it.

What does he need it for? To be abused by a bunch of politicians that arent thinking nicely about our country, I really dont think personally he should do it. But its totally his, Ill stand behind him, totally his decision.

In a statement, Senate VA committee chairman Johnny Isakson, a Georgia Republican, and Jon Tester of Montana, the top Democrat, said: We take very seriously our constitutional duty to thoroughly and carefully vet each nominee sent to the Senate for confirmation.

Democrats on the committee assembled privately late on Monday. Tester reiterated that the allegations were out there, one aide said. But no specific evidence of wrongdoing was offered. White House and VA officials were quietly discussing a delay with key allies outside the administration even as White House spokesman Hogan Gidley praised Jackson early on Tuesday.

Admiral Jackson has been on the front lines of deadly combat and saved the lives of many others in service to this country. Hes served as the physician to three presidents, Republican and Democrat, and been praised by them all, Gidley said.

Admiral Jacksons record of strong, decisive leadership is exactly whats needed at the VA to ensure our veterans receive the benefits they deserve.

Trump selected Jackson last month after firing former Obama official David Shulkin following an ethics scandal and rebellion within the agency. Shulkin protested and said it was a political move.



The president was impressed with Jacksons performance at the White House podium in January. Trump told aides he liked Jacksons ability to field questions as he offered a glowing report on the 71-year-old presidents physical and mental wellbeing. Jackson spent nearly an hour extolling the presidents incredible genes and joking that if only Trump had eaten a healthier diet over the last 20 years he might live to be 200 years old.

Jackson has also faced questions from Republicans, Democrats and veterans groups about whether he has the experience to manage a massive department of 360,000 employees serving nine million military veterans.

At the Tuesday press conference, Trump said: As far as experience is concerned, the veterans administration, which is approximately 13 million people, is so big, you could run the biggest hospital system in the world and [it would be] small-time compared to the veterans administration, so nobody has the experience.

So what, he is a leader and a good man. I said, What do you need it for? Hell be making his decision and its totally his decision.