If you reckon the 11 September terrorist attacks might have been an inside job or there is a nefarious new world order doing whatever it is the illuminati do, what are you likely to think about the causes of climate change?



Academics have suggested that people who tend to accept conspiracy theories also underplay or reject the science showing humans are causing rapid and dangerous climate change.

But a new study that tested this idea across 24 different countries found the link between so-called conspiratorial ideation and climate scepticism only really holds in the US.

University of Queensland psychology professor Matthew Hornsey and colleagues surveyed 5,300 people to test the link between climate scepticism and acceptance of four internationally propagated conspiracy theories around the assassination of President Kennedy, the 11 September terrorist attacks, the death of Princess Diana and the existence of a new world order.

 Sign up to receive the latest Australian opinion pieces every weekday

Only in the US did the correlation fall outside the margin of error. This is perhaps not surprising, given the booming online conspiracy culture in the Trumpocene, with even would-be presidential science advisers hanging around with conspiracy theorists.

The study also tried to tease out the links between the rejection of human-caused climate change and the ideologies that people hold.

Its here that the study offers the greatest cause for hope, Hornsey says. He has developed a form of jiujitsu persuasion technique that he thinks might work.

Theres been a general acceptance that people who have broadly conservative or rightwing ideologies tend to rail against climate science because it rubs their worldview up the wrong way. That is, that tackling climate change will require broad interventions from governments.

But Hornseys study finds that there is nothing inherent to conspiratorial ideation or conservative ideologies that predisposes people to reject climate science.

Instead, it suggests vested interests have managed to reshape the conservative identity with ignorance-building strategies in two countries  the US and Australia.

Hornsey agreed to expand on the study by answering further questions by email.

You found that in the US peoples climate scepticism was more aligned to a conservative worldview than any other country surveyed. Why do you think the US is in this position?

I think its a result of two things. First, a lot of the big business interests that are threatened by climate change are situated in the US. My overall argument is that theres nothing inherent to political conservatism that makes people want to reject climate science. Rather, the link between conservatism and climate scepticism only emerges in countries that are economically threatened by the notion of responding to climate change. When the vested interests are high (in terms of the fossil fuel industry, for example) then there is more of a motivation for big business to engage in an organised campaign of misinformation around climate change. These campaigns often develop as a collaboration between the fossil fuel industry and conservative thinktanks, media and politicians, and are designed to coach conservatives to believe that the climate science is not yet settled. From this perspective, conservatives dont spontaneously feel the need to reject climate science; they only do so when they are taking their cues from conservative elites, and these cues only emerge when the economic stakes are high. Second, America has an unusually intense brand of conservatism, one that has a particularly strong opposition to government interference in the free market. Climate science is a nightmare for these people, because in some ways it does imply a big-government response designed to regulate industry.

What role do the views of high-profile politicians have in influencing voters to think about the issue in a certain way?

I think it plays a massive role. In many countries, climate scepticism is not part of the language of the conservative parties. But in Australia and America it is. So in those countries being a climate sceptic starts becoming part of the package of attitudes that youre supposed to have if youre a good conservative. The obvious example of this is in the US. Of the 17 candidates who campaigned to be the Republican nominee for the 2016 presidential campaign, the majority were climate change sceptics. So peoples sense of what it means to be a Republican in America has expanded to incorporate something that shouldnt really be political, like climate science. There, people advertise their climate scepticism like theyre advertising their political gang colours. Its not quite as bad here, but threatened to become like that during the [Tony] Abbott era.

Why do you think this has happened?

In the paper, you say there is nothing inherent to conspiratorial ideation or conservative ideologies that predisposes people to reject climate science. Can you clarify this? Doesnt endorsement of small governments and low regulation actually predispose conservatives to engage in motivated reasoning to reject the science of climate change?

What do you think it would take for the US and Australia to break the apparent link between conservative ideology and climate scepticism?