Bette Midler joked about Rand Paul being violently assaulted when she sardonically tweeted, Wheres Rand Pauls neighbor when we need him? during the Kentucky Senators effort to hold up the budget vote last night.

Paul managed to block the vote past a midnight deadline that technically meant the government shut down for a short time, with the Senator insisting that an amendment be added to reign in out of control spending. A two year budget deal was subsequently approved by the Senate.

However, during Pauls stunt, several leftist celebrities and numerous verified Twitter liberals expressed their disappointment that the Senators neighbor wasnt in attendance to physically assault him.

Paul was viciously assaulted by his 59-year-old neighbor and registered Democrat Rene Boucher last November while mowing his lawn, leaving him with five broken ribs and lacerations to his lungs. Although denied by Bouchers lawyer, A subsequent investigation by the Washington Examiner found that the attack was almost certainly politically motivated.

Bette Midler longed to see a repeat of the attack last night when she tweeted, Wheres Rand Pauls neighbor when we need him?

Despite widespread condemnation, the tweet has not yet been deleted.

So much for love trumps hate, commented one respondent.

Ive loved Bette since I was a little kid, but this statement made me lose all respect for her, added another.

However, Midler wasnt the only leftists to wish physical harm upon Rand Paul.

Rand Pauls neighbor didnt hit him hard enough, remarked Elon Green, who has written for the New York Times Magazine and Esquire.

Tonight, everyone in the Senate is Rand Pauls aggrieved neighbor, tweeted Huffington Post writer Matt Fuller.

Meanwhile, liberal journalist Jesse Farrar remains unapologetic after tweeting that he hoped to see conservatives drowned to death and adding that he was not joking.

Deputy editor of Deadspin, Barry Petchesky came to Farrars defense when he remarked, I cant argue that it wouldnt make the world a better place.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.