Following a late night filibuster by Rand Paul, a Republican representative commented that he can see why it must be difficult to be the Senators neighbor, a reference to Paul being assaulted last year.

Paul took to the Senate floor late Thursday to block a spending deal because he disagreed with some of the provisions. Pauls filibuster led to a temporary government shutdown, however a deal was eventually reached.

Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.) weighed in on the subject, telling Politico that When Rand Paul pulls a stunt like this, it easy to understand why its difficult to be Rand Pauls next door neighbor.

The whole delay and filibuster exercise on the budget agreement is utterly pointless. Dent argued.

Thats right, Dent, a Republican, is saying he can see why Pauls neighbor, Rene Boucher, attacked the Senator over a personal dispute, leaving Paul with multiple broken ribs and potential life threatening injuries.

It is one thing for vacuous celebrities and leftist agitators to mouth off such tripe on Twitter, but shouldnt there be more recourse for am elected representative who justifies violence against a colleague?

Senator Lindsey Graham did not go as far as Dent in his wording, but told Fox News that he considered Paul to be doing a dangerous thing by opposing the budget deal.

Paul took issue with the hypocrisy of some representatives who are now supporting deficits under a republican presidency, when they were previously against such actions under Obama.

I want people to feel uncomfortable. Paul explained, adding I want them to have to answer people at home who said, how come you were against President Obamas deficits and then how come youre for Republican deficits?

Isnt that the very definition of intellectual dishonesty If you were against President Obamas deficits, and now youre for the Republican deficits, isnt that the very definition of hypocrisy? Paul exclaimed.

What youre seeing is recklessness trying to be passed off as bipartisanship, Paul said during his speech.