The CEO of News Corp. has admitted that big corporations are pushing for the likes of Google and Facebook to censor alternative media outlets so that News Corp-owned publications can make more money.

The admission is contained in an AFP article about Robert Thompson, CEO of the publishing arm of Rupert Murdochs media empire.

Thompson accuses Google and Facebook of creating a dysfunctional and debased online environment by failing to crack down on what he calls bot-infested badlands, and that this lack of censorship is making it harder to achieve a safe space for advertisers.

Thompson goes on to complain that misinformation is being promoted at the expense of media properties such as the Wall Street Journal (which just happens to be owned by News Corp).

The potential returns for our journalism would be far higher in a less chaotic, less debased digital environment, asserts Thompson.

In other words, if those pesky alternative media outlets like Infowars were censored and shadow banned by Google and social media giants, News Corp would make a lot more money.

Thompson welcomes efforts by Google and Facebook to promote mainstream content alongside alternative media links, which has been introduced on the basis of fact checking, yet in reality is just another desperate effort by the establishment to silence its competition.

Its understandable why Thompson is so paranoid about mainstream publications being supplanted given News Corps recent financial figures. The company recorded a $66 million dollar loss for the quarter ending in December. Advertising income is also down 6 per cent from a year ago.

The Wall Street Journal has led a crusade against independent content creators for the last year, most notoriously smearing YouTuber PewDiePieas a nazi as part of a campaign to drown out non-mainstream voices.

Earlier this week, the WSJ published yet another hit piece which lobbied YouTube to censor alternative media by having its algorithm demote non-mainstream content.

The writer of the article, Jack Nicas, bragged about how he had compiled a list of fringe and divisive content and then presented it to YouTube, who then promised theyd be working harder to bury such content in favor of mainstream media outlets.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.