Arizona Republican Sen. John McCain, who is fighting brain cancer back in Arizona, announced Wednesday evening he hoped his colleagues wouldn't confirm Haspel, citing her role in the Bush-era CIA interrogation program. McCain's comments are hanging over the Senate, following Haspel's confirmation hearing Wednesday and the positive news of her nomination gaining the support of at least one Democrat.

Sen. Jeff Flake, the retiring Republican also from Arizona, has yet to make up his mind on Haspel as of Thursday morning, a fact complicated now by McCain, who's been a mentor to him. Flake said McCain's statement will "affect everyone."

"He's been a preeminent voice on speaking out against torture," Flake said. "The laws that we now have, we used the Army field manual as a guide -- that was his bill. He was the main motivation behind that, so his voice matters here. I'm glad that he's spoken up.

Flake said he planned to once again review classified material on Haspel's time in the CIA, but Flake -- a constant critic of President Donald Trump -- told CNN Thursday morning he and McCain have often shared similar views about the harm of using enhanced interrogation technique.

"I met with him last Friday but we didn't discuss this," Flake said. "So I may see if I can reach him today but I've always shared his views on this issue he knows more than anybody about torture obviously and I respect his views." While the vast majority of Republicans have already indicated they plan to support or are leaning toward supporting Haspel, the GOP's majority is narrow. With McCain out and Sen. Rand Paul, a Republican from Kentucky, vowing to vote "no," the GOP can't afford to lose many more votes without winning broader Democratic support. Sen. Lindsey Graham, one of McCain's closes friends in the Senate, announced Thursday he will support Haspel, a piece of good news for GOP leaders. Haspel's nomination seemed to be moving in a positive direction Wednesday after her confirmation hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee. Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat from West Virginia, announced his support as did Sen. Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine, who is considered a moderate in her party. But both of those commitments came before McCain's statement. "I believe Gina Haspel is a patriot who loves our country and has devoted her professional life to its service and defense," McCain, who himself was tortured during the Vietnam war, said in a statement Wednesday evening . "However, Ms. Haspel's role in overseeing the use of torture by Americans is disturbing. Her refusal to acknowledge torture's immorality is disqualifying. I believe the Senate should exercise its duty of advice and consent and reject this nomination."