President Donald Trump wants to meet with members of the video game industry this week to talk about violence in their games, which he believes might be at the root of gun violence in America. Video game fans  including some of Trumps earliest and biggest supporters, many from the Gamergate movement  are furious.

In response to the shooting in Parkland, Florida, on Valentines Day, Trump held a White House roundtable where he said: We have to do something about maybe what theyre seeing and how theyre seeing it, and also, video games.

Im hearing more and more people say the level of violence on video games is really shaping young peoples thoughts, he said.

The meeting hasnt been scheduled yet  in fact, representatives of the largest video game companies had not been informed of any such meeting in the first place. But the reaction among politically minded gamers has been harsh and swift.

As one poster commented on Reddits biggest Gamergate-themed message board: Congratulations Trump supporters, the next push to censor videogames is your fault.

The political elements of Gamergate helped contribute to the rise of the alt-right. Some of them morphed into hardcore online Trump fans  defending him with aggressive tactics from trolling to doxxing. But Trumps anti-video game views have roared back to the surface  putting many gamers on the defensive.

Trumps anti-political correctness rhetoric during the 2016 presidential campaign and beyond appealed to many gamers, particularly those who took part in the Gamergate movement of 2014.

Gamergate began, as my colleague Todd VanDerWerff has written, with two separate issues: the treatment of women in gaming and the ethics of video game journalism, with criticism of how much coverage goes to social issues featured in video games as compared to the gameplay itself. The launchpoint centered on a woman game designer and her ex-boyfriend, and her alleged relationship with a writer for an influential video game website. But over time, the movement seemed to metastasize into one dedicated to trolling.

In their quest to defend video games from the threat of censorship by so-called Social Justice Warriors, Gamergaters doxxed their opposition, harassing women on Twitter and even driving some of their targets from their homes  a tactic that the alt-right would later use against anti-Trump voices. As one of Gamergates biggest targets, Brianna Wu, told CNET in 2017, GamerGate was the canary in the coal mine.

Some Gamergaters (particularly those who joined the movement to protest political correctness in video games) contributed to the rise of the alt-right, a loose cadre of populist-leaning reactionaries and some conservatives who deemed the traditional right wing as ineffectual.

They found a voice in Trump, particularly after former Breitbart News chair Steve Bannon took a role in Trumps campaign. Many of Trumps biggest online supporters came into pro-Trump activism from Gamergate. These include people like Mike Cernovich, who called Gamergate the most important battle of the culture war this century, and disgraced former Breitbart editor Milo Yiannopoulos, who attempted to legitimize the alt-right within conservative media and take it (and its racism and anti-Semitism) mainstream.

Its likely that Trumps meeting with video game executives (if it happens at all) will have little impact on the industry. In 2011, the Supreme Court ruled in Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association that video games are protected under the First Amendment, with Justice Antonin Scalia writing, [t]his country has no tradition of specially restricting childrens access to depictions of violence. And as Polygons Mona Ibrahim writes, video game companies have powerful lobbying arms and considerable sway in Congress.

But the biggest supporters of Gamergate are still trying to figure out what the hell Trump, the loudest voice in the fight against perceived PC culture, and his fellow Republicans are doing when they try to regulate video games.

Some Gamergate supporters have found a way to make Trumps comments about video games progressives fault. Others, especially those on Reddit, are furious at Trumps remarks.

Trumps views on video games arent new. The president has long believed (despite ample evidence to the contrary) that playing violent video games leads to violence in real life, and that something should be done about it.

In 2012, three days after the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School, he tweeted:

It should be noted that many of those who still consider themselves Gamergaters knew that Trump wasnt a video game supporter in the first place. In response to a question I put out on Twitter, one Reddit user posted the following:

And others would still prefer Trump to the liberal journalists they view as the true enemy of gaming:

But other gamers, particularly those who have supported the Gamergate movement from the beginning, are confused, as Americas tells it like it is, anti-PC president has started to sound like the left-leaning media some of them seem to despise.