Ever since the Trump administration announced in September that it was winding down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, theres been a ton of confusion about what is actually going on.

Politicians and the press have repeatedly cited March 5  the date Trump picked in September, as a warning to Congress to finally find a solution for the 690,000 undocumented immigrants protected from deportation under DACA  as an expiration date for DACA recipients themselves.

And after the Supreme Court has rejected a highly unusual request from the Trump administration in a lawsuit over their attempt to end the program, many have concluded that DACA recipients are safe.

But neither of these is really true, in terms of how DACA actually works. The important dates for DACA recipients themselves are the ones on the work permits issued by the government. They were never going to expire en masse on March 5, and the Supreme Court ruling doesnt automatically extend them, either.

Now that the deadline Trump said has passed, DACA is anything but safe. But its not dead either. The political debate might have moved on, but the clock is still ticking for immigrants themselves.

The way some people talk about the March 5 expiration, youd be forgiven for thinking that the hundreds of thousands of unauthorized immigrants protected under DACA would all lose their protections  or, worse, that theyd all be rounded up for deportation. But thats not the case.

Politically, March 5 was important: a clear deadline that President Trump gave Congress to deal with the fate of DACA recipients. Its all but official that Congress has failed to meet it.

But as policy  in terms of what DACA meant for immigrants  March 5 just marked an inflection point, at which the unraveling of DACA, up to then relatively slow, would get faster.

DACAs end really started on September 5, 2017, when the Trump administration stopped accepting new applications for the program. From October to March, approximately 122 immigrants each day had their DACA-issued work permits expire because they were unable to apply in time for renewals.

After March 5, that number might be as high as hundreds of immigrants a day. Estimates from the Migration Policy Institute suggest that over the two years starting on March 5, 2018, an average of 915 work permits issued under DACA will expire daily. US Citizenship and Immigration Services data suggests that the pace will start slow, with 425 immigrants losing work permits daily in March, but will pick up aggressively a few months later.

But due to some recent court decisions, it might not end up being that many.

A pair of federal court orders  one issued in California in January, and one issued in New York in February  have slowed DACAs unraveling by allowing DACA recipients to apply for two-year renewals again. As a result, its actually impossible to tell how many immigrants are losing work permits on March 6  and how many will have new ones that last through March 2020 or later.

In January, a federal judge in California issued an injunction against the Trump administrations wind-down of DACA, and told US Customs and Immigration Services (USCIS) to make a reasonably timely plan to resume accepting renewal applications. The Trump administration is appealing the judges order  but because its not seeking a stay, theres no chance for the order to be overturned in the immediate future.

In the meantime, a second judge, in New York, also issued an injunction  meaning that even if one of the two orders got overturned, USCIS would have to keep accepting and processing renewals.

A week before the March 5 deadline, the Supreme Court rejected a request from the Trump administration to review the California order directly. Instead, it will go through the normal process, appealing the California order to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals (which has agreed to expedite the appeal) and presumably appealing the New York order to the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals. Ultimately, its probably going to have to go back to the Supreme Court if it wants any hope of getting the California order overturned.

In the meantime, DACA wont be fully operational as it was before Trumps September 2017 decision. Unauthorized immigrants who turned 15 after September 5 of last year still wont be able to apply, and neither will immigrants who would have qualified for DACA but couldnt afford a $495 application fee (or who didnt apply for some other reason). But immigrants who had DACA and lost it, or are in danger of losing it, will be able to apply for renewals  and those renewals will, theoretically, be processed and granted normally.

And even if the Supreme Court (or a lower court) fully overturns the judges orders and allows the administration to shut down DACA again, the permits its handed out in the interim will still be valid.

No matter when exactly DACA is officially closed off (again), it will die slowly, a thousand deaths a day. There wont be any handy (if artificial) deadline to point to as the date that Congress needs to act. Congress will need, if it acts, to somehow act on its own.

Heres how DACA is working right now:

Hundreds of thousands of immigrants have been in a state of uncertainty and anxiety since September 2017  and even earlier, as DACA recipients wondered what President Trump would do to them. Congress still has the power to alleviate that uncertainty. But if it couldnt do so without the impetus of a deadline, it may feel even less urgency without one.

UPDATE: This article has been updated to reflect estimates from USCIS and the Migration Policy Institute as to the timeline of work permit expirations.