Official portraits of Barack and Michelle Obama were unveiled on Monday at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington.

The Obamas were there to see the unveiling of the gallerys first commissions of official portraits by African American artists.

The former presidents portrait was painted by Kehinde Wiley, an artist best known for his vibrant, large-scale paintings of African Americans.

For Michelle Obamas portrait, the gallery commissioned Baltimore-based artist Amy Sherald, first-prize winner of the Portrait Gallerys 2016 Outwin Boochever Portrait competition.

How about that? Thats pretty sharp, said Obama, who described the art as extraordinary. He said: Its my great honor to be here. It means so much to us.

He thanked Sherald for the portrait of his wife and for so spectacularly capturing the the grace, and beauty, and intelligence, and charm, and ... hotness of the woman I love.

The gallery, which is part of the Smithsonian group of museums, has a complete collection of presidential portraits, and started commissioning those of presidents from George HW Bush onwards.



Obamas portrait will be exhibited in the Americas presidents gallery.



Michelle Obama described her potrait as amazing and admitted she was a little overwhelmed ... humbled and proud to think of her picture hanging in the Portrait Gallery. She joked that she was the first person in her family to have a portrait in the gallery.

She praised Sherald and said that during the process of selecting her she was blown away by her colors and the boldness of her work.

Michelle Obama apologized for the taxing process and revealed how Sherald, who was under consideration to also paint the presidents portrait, told her she really wanted to work with her. She joked that Barack faded into the background.

Obama praised Wiley and said working with him was a great joy. He said that compared to Sherald, Wiley was working at a disadvantage. [I am] not as becoming, not as fly.

He added: I dont like posing, I look at my watch. Its pretty tortuous trying to take a photograph of me, never mind a portrait.