The unlikely state of Idaho just opened the latest front in the endless war against health reform. At the end of January, it announced that it will allow insurers to sell plans without regard to Obamacares pesky rules.

So far as Idaho is concerned, insurers are free to charge the sick more for coverage, to limit their benefits, and to impose annual payout caps. Last week, Blue Cross of Idaho said it hopes to start selling noncompliant plans by early March.

Given that the Affordable Care Act is still the law of the land, whats going on here? Its tempting to dismiss Idahos move as an inconsequential political stunt. The state has a population the size of Phoenix and went for Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton by more than 30 points. A committee in its House of Representatives just approved a bill to allow state lawmakers to nullify federal law  a nonstarter, constitutionally. So what if Idaho wants to fly its crazy flag?

But it would be a mistake to ignore what Idaho is up to. If the Trump administration doesnt intervene, other red states will surely follow in its footsteps. The result will be widespread disregard of the law and the rise of state-to-state inequalities in the private market similar to those that already exist in Medicaid.

And dont count on the courts: Theyre more likely than you might think to sit this one out. Idaho could help red states achieve what congressional Republicans have only dreamed of: the covert repeal of some of the ACAs most crucial protections. As Idaho goes, so goes the nation.

Whats worrisome about Idaho, legally speaking, is not that it wont enforce the Affordable Care Act. Under the Constitution, the federal government cant direct state officials to enforce federal law. Thats why the ACA has a backup. When the states fail to substantially enforce the law, the Department of Health and Human Services is supposed to enforce it for them. The agency has already done so in four states that want no part of Obamacare: Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas, and Wyoming.

Instead, whats worrisome is that Blue Cross of Idaho intends to disregard its own obligation to comply with federal law. The ACA prohibits all insurers in the United States from discriminating against the sick and imposing annual caps, and states have no power to undo those prohibitions. So Blue Cross knows full well that it will be breaking the law if it takes up Idahos invitation. It just thinks itll get away with it.

Unfortunately, Blue Cross might be right. Theres some bad precedent on the books. When President Obama came under fire for breaking his promise that if you like your health plan, you can keep it, his administration told states that they could allow insurers to sell grandmothered plans that violated ACA rules. That too was illegal, as I said at the time. But the Obama administration went ahead anyhow, which may have made it easier for the Trump administration to turn a blind eye to what Idaho is doing.

If Idaho moves forward and other states follow its lead, what will emerge is a gray market in noncompliant insurance coverage, not unlike the gray market in legalized marijuana. Indeed, the marijuana analogy fits neatly. In both cases, state officials have purported to legalize conduct banned by federal law; in both cases, federal officials have been reluctant to enforce a law they disagree with.

And as with marijuana, what starts in one state will spread. As floutings of federal law go, Idahos approach is pretty measured. Under its rules, insurers that sell noncompliant plans must also sell compliant plans, the unhealthy can only be charged 50 percent more than the healthy, and insurers must cover preexisting conditions (unless theres a gap in coverage, in which case they dont).

But other red states that follow Idahos lead may not be so restrained. They might allow insurers to ditch their ACA-compliant plans, to exclude any and all preexisting conditions, or to jettison coverage for mental health care. Red states could take us back to the harsh pre-ACA state of affairs, and all without the need for congressional action.

So this story isnt really about Idaho. Its about every Republican-controlled state thats waiting to see what happens next.

Bringing a lawsuit to end the Idaho experiment wont be easy. Figuring out whom to sue and finding the right plaintiff both pose challenges. Suing HHS is probably a nonstarter. The Supreme Court has flatly held that the courts cant review a federal agencys refusal to enforce the law. Theres some wiggle room where an agency adopts a policy thats so extreme as to amount to an abdication of its statutory responsibilities, but the case would be a long shot.

A better approach would be to sue the Idaho Department of Insurance when it greenlights Blue Cross to sell noncompliant plans. Even though Idaho doesnt have to enforce the ACA, state law requires state agencies to follow federal law when they make decisions. And approving an illegal plan for sale is unquestionably an action in violation of constitutional or statutory provisions.

To bring that case, however, youd have to find a plaintiff with standing, which means a plaintiff who has suffered injury on account of the departments decision. Who might that litigant be?

Its tricky. Noncompliant plans will appeal to healthier people, leaving sicker people to buy ACA-compliant health plans. The price for compliant plans will go up  but not everyone will pay that price, because the ACA caps the premiums of people who earn less than four times the poverty level. Rising premiums wont injure people who are protected by premium caps, so they probably wont have standing.

The best plaintiff, then, might be someone who earns too much to take advantage of the premium caps but who has a chronic condition. She couldnt afford to buy a noncompliant Blue Cross plan: Blue Cross would jack up her premiums because shes sick. And next year her premiums for an ACA-compliant plan will shoot up because healthy people will flee the market for compliant plans. Shell face a classic pocketbook injury, and therefore might have grounds to sue.

Even then, however, standing isnt a sure thing. The link between the insurance departments action and the resulting price increase might be too attenuated to satisfy the courts. The doctrine around standing is notoriously unpredictable and, in the hands of unsympathetic judges, could pose a serious obstacle. (We can be pretty sure that Idaho judges will be unsympathetic: The state elects its judges, and the electorate dislikes the law.)

Nor is standing the only problem. Under Idaho law, a plaintiff must ask an agency for relief before suing it. If the courts force a plaintiff to exhaust her administrative remedies before hearing her case, it could be stalled long enough for other states to head down the same road.

Another approach would be to sue Blue Cross itself. Its new freedom plans would cap annual payouts at $1 million per year. A patient who busts through that cap could sue the insurer to force it to cover all of her medical expenses. The ACA forbids such caps, and in Idaho, as in other states, [t]he general rule is that a contract prohibited by law is illegal and unenforceable. It should be a slam-dunk case.

A lawsuit like that, however, might have to wait until Blue Cross enforces the annual cap against someone, which could take time. Until then, its hard to see what the basis for a suit against Blue Cross would be. Its crappy to charge the sick more for coverage, but its not the sort of public nuisance that the courts will abate.

I dont mean to be too skeptical: These are early days, and inventive lawyers may come up with inventive strategies to stop the Idaho initiative. But its by no means a given that a lawsuit will ever get off the ground, either in Idaho or in the inevitable copycat states.

Whether red states can roll back Obamacare may therefore hinge on whether the newly installed HHS secretary, Alex Azar, decides to block Idahos plans. Doing so wouldnt be hard. Azar could simply determine that Idaho wasnt enforcing the law and threaten to sanction Idaho Blue Cross. (The maximum penalty is $100 a day per enrollee, more than enough to make the plans unmarketable.) Blue Cross would undoubtedly fold.

Thats where the analogy to marijuana laws breaks down. The Department of Justice really cant bring cases against all violators of the drug laws; it has to pick and choose how to marshal its scarce resources. HHS doesnt face the same constraints when it comes to enforcing key ACA provisions. A single letter to Blue Cross would do the trick.

Given the ease of enforcement, refusing to enforce would represent an especially clear violation of the presidents duty to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. At a recent congressional hearing, Azar seemed to admit as much: There is a rule of law that we need to enforce.

Will the HHS head match his rhetoric with action? If not, the Affordable Care Act is in jeopardy. Idaho could be blazing a trail for Republican-controlled states to follow, bringing us back to a time when some of the sickest among us couldnt get health insurance  at any price.

Nicholas Bagley is a professor at the University of Michigan Law School and a contributor to The Incidental Economist. Find him on Twitter @nicholas_bagley.

The Big Idea is Voxs home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture  typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.