Last October, special counsel Robert Mueller indicted Paul Manafort on nine counts, all related to his past work for Ukrainian politicians and the millions of dollars he got from that work. (Hes pleaded not guilty.)

But Mueller may not be stopping there. His investigators have also been scrutinizing some $16 million in loans Manafort got after the 2016 election  and are looking into whether Manafort promised his lender a Trump administration job in return, according to a report Wednesday by NBC Newss Tom Winter and Hallie Jackson.

Mueller alluded to the loans in a court filing Friday, during deliberations over Manaforts bail package. He wrote that hed learned of additional criminal conduct from Manafort, including a series of bank frauds and bank fraud conspiracies. And he wrote that Manafort had gotten those particular loans through a series of false and fraudulent representations.

Additionally, Politicos Josh Gerstein reported Wednesday that Mueller has filed new, sealed charges in the case against Manafort and Rick Gates. This new charging document isnt yet public, and its not clear whom or what its about. But these loans seem one obvious possibility.

Manaforts post-election loans have long seemed curious. An excellent report by the New York Timess Mike McIntire from nearly a year ago laid out the timeline:

Those last loans seemed particularly odd because, per the Times, the Federal Savings Bank of Chicago focuses on affordable mortgages for military veterans, and the loan to Manafort amounted to more than 5 percent of its total assets. Furthermore, the banks head, Stephen Calk, was part of Trumps economic advisory council during the campaign  raising questions of impropriety.

Now, NBCs Winter and Jackson add the news that Muellers team is examining whether Manafort had promised Calk a Trump administration job in return for those loans. He didnt end up getting any job. The Wall Street Journal has reported that Calk hoped to become Secretary of the Army.

The NBC reporters also write that the three loans were questioned by other officials at the bank, and one source said that at least one of the bank employees who felt pressured into approving the deals is cooperating with investigators. (A spokesperson for Manafort has said that the loans had above-market-rate interest and were overcollateralized.)

If there is a new bank fraud charge against Manafort, it would turn up the heat on him even further.

There have been several recent reports suggesting that Manaforts longtime business partner Rick Gates, who was indicted alongside him last October, is on the verge of flipping and making a plea deal with Muellers team. That, however, hasnt been publicly confirmed yet.

Meanwhile, on Tuesday, a lawyer who had worked with Manafort and Gates on their Ukraine work  Alex van der Zwaan  pleaded guilty to making false statements. He admitted to lying to Muellers team about when his last communications with Gates and another unnamed person took place, and lying about deleting and not providing relevant emails to investigators.

Now there is the new report that new charges have already been filed in the Manafort case. Those could involve Gates flipping, or a new bank fraud charge against Manafort, or something else entirely  we wont know until the new charging document is unsealed.

All this could be aimed mainly at bolstering Muellers case against Manafort. Or it could have the primary goal of pressuring Manafort himself to flip, if he were to have information incriminating President Trump.