US Citizenship and Immigration Services isnt for immigrants anymore.

Thats not an exaggeration. USCIS, the federal agency responsible for issuing visas and green cards and for naturalizing immigrants as US citizens, has unveiled a new mission statement that strips out all references to immigrants themselves  including taking out a line that called the US a nation of immigrants. And in an email to agency staff Thursday, as first reported by the Intercepts Ryan Devereaux, director L. Francis Cissna bragged about the change  saying that USCIS wasnt supposed to help immigrants and the US citizens seeking to sponsor them, but rather the American people.

The new mission statement, and Cissnas justification, downplays the agencys commitment to helping immigrants become American citizens and plays up the idea that US citizens attempting to bring their family members to the US dont count as real Americans whose interests deserve to be protected.

USCISs new mission statement doesnt just reflect the Trump administrations hawkishness toward legal as well as unauthorized immigration. It encourages the notion that Americanness is a matter of blood and soil, of birth and descent, rather than an idea that anyone can be proud of regardless of where they were born.

The changes to the USCIS mission statement dont change the work the agency actually does. But they make a symbolic statement that the Trump administration sees that work differently not just from how the Obama administration did, but from our traditional understanding of what Americanness means.

Its not just the removal of the nation of immigrants line. The new mission statement removes all references to citizenship  instead of immigration and citizenship benefits, USCIS now just provides immigration benefits, and promoting an awareness and understanding of citizenship is kicked out of the mission entirely.

At the same time as the agency is deemphasizing the part of its job that involves turning immigrants into citizens, its new mission implies that the two groups  immigrants and Americans  are naturally in conflict:

Cissnas email also told USCIS staff that theyre not supposed to call applicants customers anymore because their real customers arent immigrants  theyre the American people:

Its an odd statement to make. For one thing, USCIS is the rare federal agency that isnt primarily funded through taxes  most of the money to run the agency comes from application fees. Immigrants applying for visas, green cards, and citizenship  and the US citizens and companies that have to sponsor some of those applications  are paying USCIS for the services they provide. By a commonsense definition, thats what a customer is.

But whats even more jarring than the redefinition of customer is the definition of American. Cissnas statement strongly implies that applicants and petitioners dont count as part of the American people. That might make sense if he were talking just about people newly coming to the US, or even if he were distinguishing Americans from noncitizens. But hes not.

The applicants Cissna refers to include immigrants who are applying for US citizenship  the part of USCISs function that got stripped out of the mission statement. Not only does the new mission statement suggest that helping immigrants become Americans is no longer part of USCIS job, but by distinguishing applicants from the American people, it suggests that they cant.

Furthermore, the overwhelming majority of petitioners for immigrants are US citizens petitioning for family members (or American businesses petitioning for employees). Those citizens may have been born abroad, but theyve naturalized. They are as American as anyone else.

USCIS tends to be the most obscure of the Department of Homeland Securitys three immigration agencies, precisely because its the one that doesnt deal with immigration enforcement (Customs and Border Protection addresses border enforcement; Immigration and Customs Enforcement takes care of interior enforcement). But immigrant rights advocates have been worried about the agency.

Cissna worked for Senate Judiciary Committee Chair (and immigration hawk) Chuck Grassley (R-IA) before being appointed to USCIS. The agencys ombudsman office, which is supposed to provide transparency to the people who used to be called customers, is headed by Julie Kirchner, the former executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform  a group whose mission includes reducing legal immigration to the US.

There are already indications that the new leadership is encouraging applications to be processed more slowly and with more scrutiny. In winding down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, they were more aggressive than Trumps statements implied. At the same time, theres been an apparent slowdown in the processing of naturalization applications and of work permits for some categories of immigrants.

By overhauling the mission statement, its clear that the new leadership wants to be noticed.