President Donald Trump is perpetually simmering over the Russia investigation. But speculation that he might finally move to shut down the special counsel probe has intensified in recent days.

The White House has said Trump has the power to fire special counsel Robert Mueller outright, but the more likely scenario is that he instead fires Muellers boss, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

Rosensteins job security has, at many times, been tenuous. Rosenstein  whom Trump nominated for the job  took over the Trump-Russia investigation after Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself because of his meetings with Russians as a surrogate of the 2016 Trump campaign.

Rosenstein appointed Mueller shortly after the firing of FBI Director James Comey, and now oversees him. Rosenstein also reportedly signed off on the recent raid of Trumps longtime personal lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen, a blow to Trumps inner circle.

Whats followed are renewed rumors, amplified by Trump supporters, that Rosensteins days at the Justice Department are numbered.

If Rosenstein were fired, or if he quit, the spotlight would turn to Solicitor General Noel Francisco. Francisco is the next Senate-confirmed DOJ official in line, which means the Mueller investigation would drop to him. (The No. 3 in the department, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand, resigned in February.)

Francisco has two options as Muellers new boss: He could keep the status quo and allow Mueller to continue the investigation. Or he could divert from Rosensteins course, potentially curtailing Muellers mandate or even shutting down the investigation.

Francisco, a prominent Republican lawyer, has some impressive conservative credentials. He clerked for Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and worked in the Justice Department during the George W. Bush administration.

Hes also defended a broad interpretation of executive power  and hes currently arguing a case before the Supreme Court that defends the presidents expansive power to fire executive branch officials. That case is unrelated to the Mueller probe. But Franciscos argument, and his legal interpretations, offers some insight to the man who might be asked to fire Mueller.

The Senate confirmed Francisco as solicitor general, the lawyer who represents the governments agenda before the Supreme Court, in September on a 50-47 party-line vote.

Franciscos resume also includes working on George W. Bushs legal team in the 2000 Florida recount and, as a partner at Jones Day, representing former Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell in his successful case before the Supreme Court that led to McDonnells corruption conviction being overturned.

Francisco has a sterling reputation as a conservative lawyer. He apparently wasnt Trumps first choice for the job; Chuck Cooper, a well-known litigator, withdrew from consideration. He did, however, serve as acting solicitor general as Trump conducted his search. Eventually, the president nominated Francisco, who then stepped aside until his Senate confirmation.

Franciscos confirmation hearing was held the day after Trump fired FBI Director Comey, and the issue of loyalty to the administration was on the minds of some Democratic senators.

In a response to a written question on how he would maintain his independence from the White House, Francisco gave an anodyne answer: If confirmed, I will provide the President, the White House, and any other entity that I am called upon to advise with candid and independent legal advice.

Francisco also said he played no role in Comeys firing, and reiterated that if confirmed, he would provide candid, honest, and independent legal advice.

Franciscos past legal stances indicate he takes a pretty broad view of executive powers  and has expressed skepticism about the need for special counsels.

In 2007, he testified about his views on presidential power during a congressional inquiry into Bushs politically motivated firing of nine US attorneys. The administration had been reluctant to turn over documents or let officials testify under oath on issues related to mass dismissal of US attorneys. Bush invoked executive privilege to defend his decision.

Francisco, who by then was in private practice, appeared before a House committee to defend the administration. As Mother Jones reports, he criticized the idea of appointing a special counsel to investigate the Bush administration over this scandal:

Francisco also argued for the expansiveness of executive power, saying that conversations between administration officials, even if Bush wasnt actively involved, could be protected by executive privilege. He didnt say executive privilege was absolute  but he basically said it was up to the court to decide: What the courts have said is that in the context of a criminal investigation, if there is a sufficient showing of need, it can obviate the privilege.

Franciscos early tenure in the Trump administration indicates his positions havent shifted all that much. He is currently arguing a case before the Supreme Court that could have implications for the Mueller investigation. It involves a narrow issue of how the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) administrative law judges are hired. But as the Los Angeles Times reported last weekend, Francisco has stepped in and asked the Court to decide on a much larger question of the presidents constitutional authority to not just hire officials but fire them too:

Francisco is basically saying the Constitution gives the president the ability to dismiss all officials who have power under the executive branch. That could, most conspicuously, give Trump a legal way to oust Mueller.

The Supreme Court will likely judge the case very narrowly on the question raised about the status of SEC administrative law judges. But its telling that the administration is taking this stance and that Francisco, as the solicitor general, is making these arguments before the Court.

Franciscos approach to executive power doesnt mean hell take over and fire Mueller if Rosenstein is ousted, or even rein in Muellers mandate  but it does hint that he might be more sympathetic to the Trump administrations stance.

Still, he did dine with Rosenstein and Attorney General Sessions in March shortly after Trump antagonized Sessions for, in his view, not doing enough about the FBIs handling of the surveillance of former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page. (Recall the claims in the Nunes memo.)

The dinner, coming as it did on the heels of the president viciously and publicly attacking his attorney general, seemed symbolic of a united front against the onslaught. Then again, all three, Francisco included, could be fired by Trump at any time.