ADL head Jonathan Greenblatt tried to blame Donald Trumps tweets for a supposed surge in antisemitism after his election.

Something has changed with the way that strains of intolerance have moved from the shadows and seeped into the mainstream, Greenblatt said earlier this year.

I think whats new is today we have a situation where literally the presidential Twitter account is retweeting memes that originate on sub-reddits that are developed by some of the worst segments of society, Greenblatt said. The presidents retweeting of white supremacists and anti-Semitic memes during the campaign and, more recently, sharing tweets from a UK racist group  those are alarming. Those tweets and rhetoric have emboldened and given encouragement to the worst anti-Semites and bigots.

The SPLC and the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect said similar.

Vandals who toppled tombstones in a Jewish cemetery near St. Louis last weekend did more than an act of desecration. Their vile crime prompted the new Trump Administration to finally speak out on a growing wave of anti-Semitism. The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible, and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil, President Trump said Tuesday at during a visit to the National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. His response came two days after as many as 200 headstones were tipped over or vandalized in the Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery in University City, Missouri, near St. Louis. There have been no arrests. [...]Several Jewish and civil rights organizations said the response from the Trump Administration was tardy or bland. Some had harsher criticism. Mr. President, your too little, too late acknowledgement of anti-Semitism today is not enough, said Steven Goldstein, executive Director of the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect, a New York-based organization that address civil and human rights issues. The new administration committed grotesque acts and omissions reflecting anti-Semitism, Goldstein said, noting the White House failed to mention Jews in its Holocaust remembrance. The anti-Semitism coming out of this Administration is the worst we have ever seen from any Administration, Goldstein said.

Its since come out the JCC bomb threats were carried out by a Jewish teenager living in Israel.

An African-American news reporter was also caught carrying out several copycat threats to try and frame an ex-girlfriend.

Headstones toppled at a Jewish cemetery in Brooklyn, New York were found to have fallen due to poor maintenance and erosion.

Now, we learn a 34-year-old African-American man with a criminal record who was high on drugs was behind the toppling of around 130 gravestones in St. Louis.

UNIVERSITY CITY, Mo.  An arrest has been made in a Jewish cemetery vandalism case that occurred on February 22, 2017. The St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorneys Office charged 34-year-old Alzado Harris with felony institutional vandalism on Wednesday. His bail was set at $20,000. Police said Harris confessed in a recorded interview that he knocked over around 130 gravestones at Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery.  The estimated damage was over $30,000. The incident came at a time when bomb threats were being phoned into Jewish community centers across the country.

Note, they fail to mention who was behind those threats.

The Anti-Defamation League issued the following statement after the arrest on Wednesday:

ADL was waiting to learn whether or not the case would be prosecuted as a hate crime, which requires evidence of motivation that Harris chose the cemetery intentionally because it was a Jewish one and he wanted to target Jews.  It appears that such motivation is not present.  Harris was apparently angry at a friend and alcohol and drug use fueled his remarkable rampage at the cemetery the night in question. While it wont be prosecuted as a hate crime, there is no question that at the time it certainly felt hateful to the Jewish community, both in St. Louis and far beyond.  While we waited on the investigation, some seriously impressive community building and interfaith expressions of support came from all over the world, including crowdfunding by the Muslim community and engagement with interfaith friends in St. Louis and globally; they understood the emotional impact, especially for the families who experienced damage to the headstones of their loved ones.

They failed to issue an apology to Donald Trump and his supporters whom they falsely maligned. The SPLC appears to have ignored the story entirely.