Donald Trump plunged a key group of congressional Republicans into chaos on Friday when he declared his opposition to an immigration proposal that had been crafted to satisfy his demands  a move that appeared to imperil plans to vote on the legislation in the House of Representatives next week.

His surprise remarks upended weeks of delicate negotiations between House Republican moderates and conservatives. They are seeking an agreement that links protections for young undocumented immigrants, whose fate is in limbo, with billions of taxpayer dollars for Trumps proposed border wall, as well as new restrictions on legal immigration. By Friday morning it was unclear if the House still planned to vote on a pair of immigration measures next week.

Im looking at both of them, Trump told TV show Fox & Friends in an interview on the north lawn of the White House on Friday morning. I certainly wouldnt sign the more moderate one.



I need a bill that gives this country tremendous border security, he added. I have to have that. 



House speaker Paul Ryan said earlier this week that leaders were working hand in glove to craft an immigration proposal aimed at forging a compromise between moderate and conservative factions of the party. The other measure preferred by immigration hardliners does not provide a pathway to citizenship for the young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers. 



Congressman Patrick McHenry, the Republican deputy whip, told reporters on Friday that House leaders were seeking clarity from the White House about Trumps comments. 



House Republicans are not going to take on immigration without the support and endorsement of President Trump, he said.

A spokesman for McHenrys office said that it remained unclear whether or not the House will hold votes on the immigration bills next week.

Weeks of negotiations among House Republicans have coincided with painful stories about children being separated from their parents at the US-Mexico border, the result of the administrations zero tolerance immigration enforcement policy.

I hate the children being taken away, Trump told reporters after his interview with Fox. But he again falsely blamed his administrations policy of forcibly removing migrant children from parents on Democrats.

Thats the law and thats what the Democrats gave us, he said, adding a claim that the opposition party would not negotiate on immigration because they were afraid of security for our country. There is no such law that requires the government to separate families.

The increasing number of families separated at the border is largely the result of the zero tolerance policy, announced by Trumps attorney general, Jeff Sessions, in which migrants entering the US illegally are referred for criminal prosecution.

Previously, the US allowed children to remain with their parents by releasing families while they awaited civil deportation proceedings. Now the administration releases the children to relatives or foster care.

Republicans touted a provision in their compromise immigration proposal that they said would keep families together by clarifying a 1997 court ruling that prevents undocumented children from being held in custody for long periods.

But legal experts and immigration advocates say that the proposal would still allow the administration to separate the families at the border while the parents await criminal proceedings. The change, however, would allow the administration to reunite parents and children in immigration detention facilities that house families, a controversial practice which is opposed by Democrats.

House minority leader Nancy Pelosi called the plan to, effectively, trade protection for Dreamers for the wall and new immigration restrictions totally unworthy of America and said that the presidents opposition to the measure was an indicator of how low his standards are.