Donald Trump has falsely claimed a report issued on Thursday by a Department of Justice watchdog totally exonerates him of allegations of collusion with Russia or obstruction of justice.

The president also claimed to have the support of the real FBI. Not the scum on top.

Trump was responding to the inspector generals review of the FBI investigation into Hillary Clintons use of a private email server while secretary of state  not alleged coordination between the Trump campaign and Moscow.

Nonetheless he attempted to conflate the two, telling reporters at the White House: I think the report yesterday, maybe more importantly than anything, it totally exonerates me. There was no collusion, there was no obstruction, and if you read the report youll see that.

Trump added: What youll really see is youll see bias against me and millions and tens of millions of my followers that is really a disgrace and yet, if you look at the FBI, and you went in and polled the FBI, the real FBI, those guys love me and I love them.

The investigation of Russian election interference and links between Trump aides and Moscow by special counsel Robert Mueller has, Trump claimed, been totally discredited.

The DoJ inspector generals report found no evidence that the former FBI director James Comey was motivated by political bias and did not fault his decision that Clinton should not face prosecution. It did conclude that he was insubordinate in failing to follow protocol and that he himself used a personal email account to conduct official business.

FBI agents were also criticised for making politically charged remarks in text messages. Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, who were having an affair at the time, showed a willingness to take official action to impact Trumps election chances, the report said.

Trump rejected the inspector generals conclusion that there was no political bias in the FBIs actions. The end result was wrong, he said. There was total bias. That was the most biased set of circumstances Ive ever seen in my life. Comey was the ringleader of this whole, you know, den of thieves. It was a den of thieves.

Asked if Comey should be jailed, the president said: What [Comey] did was criminal. What he did was a terrible thing to the people. What he did was so bad in terms of our constitution, in terms of the wellbeing of our country. What he did was horrible. Should he be locked up? Let somebody make the determination.

Trump held the impromptu question-and-answer session after appearing on Fox & Friends, the reverently pro-Trump morning show which conducted its broadcast from the North Lawn of the White House.

In a basic and blatant mischaracterisation of the report, Trump said it had shown the FBI was biased against him at the top level and was plotting against my election. He added: Im actually proud because I beat the Clinton dynasty, I beat the Bush dynasty. Now, I guess, hopefully Im in the process of beating very dishonest intelligence.



Discussing his supporters, Trump told Fox: I have the real FBI. Not the scum on top, not Comey and that group of people. He then repeated a threat to get involved with the Department of Justice, a possible move which, though never defined, has prompted alarm among constitutional experts.

Trumps TV foray was preceded by an early morning Twitter blast.



The IG Report is a total disaster for Comey, his minions and sadly, the FBI, Trump wrote. Comey will now officially go down as the worst leader, by far, in the history of the FBI. I did a great service to the people in firing him. Good Instincts. Christopher Wray will bring it proudly back!

He also posted: FBI Agent Peter Strzok, who headed the Clinton & Russia investigations, texted to his lover Lisa Page, in the IG Report, that well stop candidate Trump from becoming President. Doesnt get any lower than that!

Comey defended his actions in the New York Times on Thursday, writing: Nothing in the inspector generals report makes me think we did the wrong thing.

When Trump fired Comey in May last year, the handling of the Clinton investigation was cited as the reason. Trump, however, told NBC this Russia thing was part of his decision. He has since denied that motivation. In April, the two men exchanged public attacks after Comey published a book, A Higher Loyalty.

The firing of Comey led to the appointment of Mueller. The former FBI director has indicted four Trump aides. His former campaign manager Paul Manafort was sent to jail by a judge in Washington on Friday for violating his bail conditions. He has pleaded not guilty to financial charges. The former national security adviser Michael Flynn, Manaforts deputy, Rick Gates, and former foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos are cooperating with investigators.

Trumps supporters seized on the DoJ report. Rudy Giuliani, the presidents lawyer, said on Thursday: Mueller should be suspended and honest people should be brought in. Strzok should be in jail by next week.

On Friday, Giuliani told Fox it was time to clean up the FBI and suggested the president would not be interviewed by Mueller, a meeting which has been the subject of negotiations for some time.

Why would he get interviewed by a corrupt investigation? Giuliani said.

Chuck Todd, host of NBCs Meet the Press, tweeted: Todays Potus performance was breathtaking in the sheer number of provable falsehoods, intentional mischaracterizations and outright lies uttered. Clearly someone feels emboldened. Will GOP leaders continue to shrug this off? Bury their head in the sand?