Hours after Donald Trump plunged congressional Republicans into chaos by declaring his opposition to their carefully negotiated immigration proposal, the White House announced he would support the effort.

House Republican leaders had planned to hold votes next week on two immigration measures: a hardline proposal authored by the House judiciary committee chairman, Bob Goodlatte, and a plan touted as a compromise between the moderate and conservative factions of the Republican party.



Im looking at both of them, Trump said during an interview with Fox and Friends on Friday morning. I certainly wouldnt sign the more moderate one.



But by Friday afternoon the White House had reversed course and said the president supported both measures.

The President fully supports both the Goodlatte bill and the House leadership bill, the White House deputy press secretary, Raj Shah, said in a statement. In this mornings interview, he was commenting on the discharge petition in the House, and not the new package. He would sign either the Goodlatte or the leadership bills.

The discharge petition refers to an effort led by a group of rebellious Republicans who attempted to circumvent House leadership in an effort to force a series of immigration votes and win protections for young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.

That rebellion was averted when the House speaker, Paul Ryan, agreed to hold votes next week on the two immigration bills.

Trumps commitment to sign either bill should inject new life into the effort that appeared certain to fail without the presidents support.

Immigration hardliners prefer the more conservative proposal but had signaled an openness to consider the alternative measure, which strictly adheres to Trumps vision for a sweeping overhaul of the US immigration system. Without the presidents endorsement, that bill almost certainly would not have been able to win over enough conservatives to pass the House.

The presidents morning remarks upended weeks of delicate negotiations between House moderates and conservatives. They had been seeking an agreement linking protections for Dreamers, whose fate is in limbo, with billions of taxpayer dollars for a border wall and new restrictions on legal immigration. On Friday morning, it was unclear if the House still planned to vote on a pair of immigration measures next week.

As House Republicans scrambled for more details, Trump appeared to encourage the Republican immigration effort, though he did not clearly endorse either plan.

Any Immigration Bill MUST HAVE full funding for the Wall, end Catch & Release, Visa Lottery and Chain, and go to Merit Based Immigration. Go for it! WIN! Trump wrote on Twitter. 



Weeks of negotiations among House Republicans have coincided with painful stories about children being separated from their parents at the US-Mexico border.

I hate the children being taken away, Trump told reporters after his interview with Fox. But he again falsely blamed his administrations policy of forcibly removing migrant children from parents on Democrats.

Thats the law and thats what the Democrats gave us, he said, adding a claim that the opposition party would not negotiate on immigration because they were afraid of security for our country.

There is no such law that requires the government to separate families. The increasing number of families separated at the border is largely the result of the zero tolerance policy, announced by Trumps attorney general, Jeff Sessions, in which migrants entering the US illegally are referred for criminal prosecution.

Previously, the US allowed children to remain with their parents by releasing families while they awaited civil deportation proceedings. Now the administration releases the children to relatives or foster care.

Republicans touted a provision in their compromise immigration proposal that they said would keep families together by clarifying a 1997 court ruling that prevents undocumented children from being held in custody for long periods.

Legal experts and immigration advocates say that would still allow the administration to separate families at the border while the parents await criminal proceedings. The change would allow the administration to reunite parents and children in immigration detention facilities that house families, a controversial practice opposed by Democrats.

There is absolutely no provision in here that says families will not be separated, said Kerri Talbot of Immigration Hub. The zero tolerance policy that results in the prosecution for the parent and separation from their child remains in place.

The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, called the plan to, in effect, offer protection for Dreamers in exchange for funding the wall and new immigration restrictions totally unworthy of America and said the presidents opposition to the measure was an indicator of how low his standards are.