Donald Trump plunged congressional Republicans into chaos on Friday when he declared his opposition to an immigration proposal crafted to satisfy his demands  a move that appeared to imperil plans to vote on the legislation in the House next week.

The presidents surprise remarks upended weeks of delicate negotiations between House moderates and conservatives seeking an agreement that links protections for young undocumented immigrants, whose fate is in limbo, with billions of taxpayer dollars for a border wall and new restrictions on legal immigration. By Friday morning, it was unclear if the House still planned to vote on a pair of immigration measures next week.

Im looking at both of them, Trump told the TV show Fox & Friends in an interview on the North Lawn of the White House. I certainly wouldnt sign the more moderate one.



He added: I need a bill that gives this country tremendous border security. I have to have that. 



By Friday afternoon, Trump appeared to be encouraging the Republican immigration effort, though he did not clearly endorse either plan.

Any Immigration Bill MUST HAVE full funding for the Wall, end Catch & Release, Visa Lottery and Chain, and go to Merit Based Immigration. Go for it! WIN! Trump wrote on Twitter. 



Soon after the presidents tweet, the Associated Press cited an anonymous senior White House official as saying that Trump was confused when he said he wouldnt support the moderate immigration bill.

The official reportedly said the president believed his interviewer was referring to an effort led by moderates to circumvent House leadership and force a series of votes that would protect young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.

That rebellion was averted when the House speaker, Paul Ryan, agreed to hold votes next week on two measures: a compromise plan and a more conservative one preferred by hardliners that does not provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers.

The White House did not immediately return requests for comment.

Patrick McHenry, the Republican deputy whip, told reporters party leaders were seeking clarity from the White House. House Republicans are not going to take on immigration without the support and endorsement of President Trump, he said.

A spokesman for McHenrys office said that it remained unclear if the House would hold votes on the immigration bills next week.

Weeks of negotiations among House Republicans have coincided with painful stories about children being separated from their parents at the US-Mexico border, spurred by the administrations zero tolerance immigration enforcement policy.

I hate the children being taken away, Trump told reporters after his interview with Fox. But he again falsely blamed his administrations policy of forcibly removing migrant children from parents on Democrats.

Thats the law and thats what the Democrats gave us, he said, adding a claim that the opposition party would not negotiate on immigration because they were afraid of security for our country.

There is no such law that requires the government to separate families. The increasing number of families separated at the border is largely the result of the zero tolerance policy, announced by Trumps attorney general, Jeff Sessions, in which migrants entering the US illegally are referred for criminal prosecution.

Previously, the US allowed children to remain with their parents by releasing families while they awaited civil deportation proceedings. Now the administration releases the children to relatives or foster care.

Republicans touted a provision in their compromise immigration proposal that they said would keep families together by clarifying a 1997 court ruling that prevents undocumented children from being held in custody for long periods.

Legal experts and immigration advocates say that would still allow the administration to separate families at the border while the parents await criminal proceedings. The change would allow the administration to reunite parents and children in immigration detention facilities that house families, a controversial practice opposed by Democrats.

There is absolutely no provision in here that says families will not be separated, said Kerri Talbot of Immigration Hub. The zero tolerance policy that results in the prosecution for the parent and separation from their child remains in place.

The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, called the plan to, in effect, offer protection for Dreamers in exchange for funding the wall and new immigration restrictions totally unworthy of America and said the presidents opposition to the measure was an indicator of how low his standards are.