Some immigrants may have been too lazy to get off their asses or too afraid to sign up for the Obama-era program that offered protection from deportation, the White House chief of staff, John Kelly, said on Tuesday, as he defended Donald Trumps proposal aimed at breaking the impasse on immigration.

In remarks to reporters, Kelly described Trumps plan, which would provide a path to citizenship for up to 1.8 million people  more than Democrats had sought  as beyond what anyone could have imagined.

There are 690,000 official Daca [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals] registrants and the president sent over what amounts to be two and a half times that number, to 1.8 million, he said. The difference between [690,000] and 1.8 million were the people that some would say were too afraid to sign up, others would say were too lazy to get off their asses, but they didnt sign up.

Kelly spoke as lawmakers have deadlocked in an effort to reach a bipartisan deal on protecting from deportation recipients of the program, known as Dreamers. Barring a last-minute agreement  which seems unlikely  the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has said his chamber will begin considering the issue, a debate that GOP leaders expect to start next week.

Kelly said Trump would probably reject an effort to pass a short-term extension for the program, which is set to expire on 5 March.

But he also noted the 5 March deadline may not have immediate impact. He said immigrants currently protected wont be priorities for deportation as long as they do not commit crimes.

Kelly said lawmakers need a deadline to force action.

What makes them act is pressure, he said.

In exchange for making citizenship a possibility, Trump wants $25bn for border security, including money to build parts of his coveted wall along the US-Mexico boundary. He also wants to curb legal immigration, restricting the relatives that legal immigrants could sponsor for citizenship and ending a lottery that distributes visas to people from selected countries.

I cant imagine men and women of good will who begged this president to solve the problem of Daca would oppose Trumps proposal, said Kelly. He added: Right now, the champion of all people who are Daca is Donald Trump.

Kelly said he doubted very much that Trump would act unilaterally to extend Daca beyond 5 March. He said Barack Obama exceeded his constitutional authority in initially creating it.

Kelly also ruled out asking lawmakers to approve a short-term extension of the program. And he said he opposed one idea mentioned as a possible fallback should talks on a broader bipartisan compromise fail  a one-year extension of Daca in exchange for a years worth of money for border security, including for building Trumps wall.

I would certainly advise against it, Kelly said. I would advise against it, Im not the president.