Congressional leaders on Tuesday moved closer to a broad budget deal to avoid another government shutdown, while Donald Trump signaled he would welcome another lapse in funding if he does not get his way on immigration.

Speaking at the White House, Trump appeared to welcome a shutdown without Democrats yielding to his tough demands on immigration and billions in extra funding for border security. Id love to see a shutdown if we cant get this stuff taken care of, said Trump.

If we have to shut it down because the Democrats dont want safety ... lets shut it down.

Trumps remarks came two days before government funding was set to expire on 8 February and as congressional leaders said they were making progress towards a broader deal that would not only keep the government open but roll back some previous limits imposed on government spending.

The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said: Were on the way to getting an agreement and getting it very soon.

The agreement would reportedly keep the government open for six weeks while allowing increased spending on domestic and military items. Defense hawks have long been pushing for an increase in defense spending; Democrats have repeatedly emphasized the need for increased spending on other government programs.

The Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, echoed McConnell. Were making real progress on a spending deal that would increase the caps for both military and middle-class priorities on the domestic side, he said.

Schumer declined to say if the increase in domestic spending would match the increase in defense spending. We Democrats have always stood for parity, and are making very good progress in reaching parity, he said.

The potential budget deal would not address immigration and the fate of Dreamers who benefit from Deferred Action for Child Arrivals, the program that protects more than 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from the threat of deportation. Daca is due to expire on 5 March. The government shuttered briefly in January as Democrats attempted to push for a permanent fix to the program.

Instead, the plan now is for an open process on the Senate floor. McConnell said: Once we have established the government is going to be open  which needs to happen by 8 February  well then move forward with an immigration debate.

He added: Im going to structure it in such way that it is fair to everyone ... whoever gets to 60 votes wins.

That vote had been promised in January as a concession by McConnell to end the shutdown then. Schumer said that he expected the process to begin next week.

Trumps willingness to see a government shutdown was shrugged off by Schumer. In the room, Virginia Republican Barbara Comstock, who is facing a tough re-election in a swing district, rebuked Trump. We dont need a government shutdown on this, Comstock, a two-term Republican, said.

Trump interrupted her and said: You can say what you want. We are not getting support of the Democrats.

On immigration, Trump later said: I would shut it down over this issue. If we dont straighten out our border, we dont have a country. Without borders we dont have a country. So would I shut it down over this issue? Yes.