Donald Trump mocked Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and the #MeToo movement during his campaign rally in Great Falls, Montana, on Thursday night.

In another now-familiar attack on the media, Trump claimed reporters wouldnt want to cover other prospective presidential candidates besides him  such as Warren, referring to her with his derogatory nickname Pocahontas.

Lets say Im debating Pocahontas, right? I promise you Ill do this, you know those little kits they sell on television for $2  Learn your heritage, Trump bragged to the crowd, saying he would furnish one such kit if Warren brought up her Native American heritage.

We will take that little kit and say  but we have to do it gently, because were in the #MeToo generation, so have to be very gentle, Trump said to laughter. And we will very gently take that kit and we will slowly toss it  hoping it doesnt hit her and injure her arm  even though it only weighs probably 2 ounces. We will say, I will give you a million dollars to your favorite charity, paid for by Trump, if you take the test and it shows youre an Indian.

Warren responded to his insult with a tweet, a pointed attack on the administrations zero tolerance policy of detaining and prosecuting migrants crossing the border. Shes previously been a vocal critic on the subject.

While you obsess over my genes, your Admin is conducting DNA tests on little kids because you ripped them from their mamas & you are too incompetent to reunite them in time to meet a court order, Warren tweeted. Maybe you should focus on fixing the lives youre destroying.

NBC News has reported that the Trump administration would indeed need to use DNA tests  to help identify the parents of some of the thousands of migrant kids who remain separated from their mothers or fathers. Thats a sign of how chaotic the reunification process has been.

Warren, meanwhile, has defended her Native American heritage, which she says learned about though her familys oral history. Nevertheless, Trumps attacks on Warren have by now become commonplace  and they are unlikely to let up if, as Trump seems to think, she becomes a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. On Thursday night he was entirely unapologetic about his latest racially charged insult: Pocahontas, I apologize to you, Trump said. To you, I apologize. To the fake Pocahontas, I wont apologize.

Beyond the jabs at Warren, Trump also sarcastically mentioned the #MeToo movement  a topic Trump tends to studiously avoid because of his own baggage. He has been accused of sexually assaulting or harassing multiple women and has either defended or dismissed other men who have been accused of misconduct  including his former staff secretary, Rob Porter, who allegedly physically assaulted his two ex-wives. At the time of Porters ouster earlier this year, Trump asked, is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?

Trumps belittling of #MeToo (while vilifying a female senator) will likely only add to the criticism his administration has received over its decision to bring on former Fox News executive Bill Shine as the communications director for the White House. Shine, who was accused of mishandling sexual harassment and discrimination claims at Fox News, was ousted from the network last year. Hes already started his new gig and traveled with Trump to Montana for the rally.