The sprawling saga of Michael Cohens hush money payoffs has taken another bizarre turn. Shera Bechard, a former Playboy model who Cohen had arranged a payoff for in exchange for her silence about a sex scandal last year, filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles County Superior Court on Friday.

Though Bechards complaint is currently sealed, the Wall Street Journals Michael Rothfeld and Joe Palazzolo report she is suing three people for alleged breach of contract.

First theres Elliott Broidy, the wealthy Trump donor who had made the payments to Bechard. Second is Keith Davidson, the former lawyer for Bechard (and Stormy Daniels, and Karen McDougal) who had negotiated that and other hush money deals with Cohen. Third is Michael Avenatti, Stormy Danielss new lawyer, who is trying to get Danielss nondisclosure agreement struck down.

The Journal reported the existence of the deal in April, saying it was made because Broidy had an affair with Bechard in 2017 and impregnated her (and that she had an abortion afterward). So, toward the end of last year, Cohen and Davidson negotiated a deal for Broidy to pay Bechard $1.6 million, in installments, for her silence.

But earlier this week, Broidy announced through his new lawyer that he would stop paying Bechard. He said that Keith Davidson had breached the secrecy of the agreement by sharing information about it with Michael Avenatti. Now Bechard is suing all three men.

All of this would merely be a strange and tawdry side story in the many scandals of Michael Cohen  if not for rampant speculation among liberals that it may have been Donald Trump, and not Elliott Broidy, who had the affair with Bechard.

There is no hard evidence that this is the case. But the argument, made at New York magazine by Paul Campos, is essentially this: We already know Cohen paid off porn actress Stormy Daniels and Playboy model Karen McDougal to hush up alleged Trump affairs. So, Campos posits, might not Cohens Bechard payment be another similar incident, with Broidys supposed involvement a cover story? (The reason Trump would be extra-motivated to hush this one up, the theory goes, is that it involves an abortion, which could infuriate many of his religious right supporters.)

Avenatti himself has fanned this speculation. I think at some point we are going to find out, if in fact, the client in connection with the settlement was, in fact, Mr. Broidy, he said on television in April. And in responding to the new lawsuit, he referred to Mr. Broidy (or whomever impregnated her) and referred to Bechards relationship, or lack thereof, with Mr. Broidy.

However, one of the two Wall Street Journal reporters whos been covering the story for months (and who helped unearth the Stormy Daniels payoffs in the first place) has pushed back on this speculation, saying hes very sure that it was Broidy and not Trump who had the affair with Bechard, and that there is zero evidence that Broidy is covering for Trump.

Meanwhile, Bechards new lawyer Peter Stris, who filed the suit, chided Avenatti on Twitter for feigning ignorance about why he was sued. (Avenatti soon fired back.)

Separately, Cohen  whos not named in the suit  has increasingly seemed adrift from Trumpworld. Hes been signaling that he could cooperate with federal investigators, even if it involves flipping on Trump, and this week he hired a new lawyer, Lanny Davis, whos a longtime ally of the Clintons. Presumably, Cohen knows the truth about what happened with Bechard.

In any case, whether Bechards suit will lead to stunning new revelations that will shake the Trump administration, or whether its merely exactly what it appears to be on the surface  a lawsuit about money with no connection to the president at all  isnt yet clear.