A federal judge expressed skepticism about special counsel Robert Muellers wide-reaching probe Friday morning during a hearing related to charges Paul Manafort is facing in Virginia.

Judge T.S. Ellis III suggested that he suspected Muellers team only charged Manafort with 18 counts of bank fraud and other charges in Virginia as a way to get to President Donald Trump  and suggested Mueller shouldnt have unfettered power to do that, NBCs Ken Dilanian reports.

To recap: Manafort, who chaired Trumps presidential campaign, has been indicted in two different venues  in Washington, DC, back in October, and on further charges in Virginia in February.

In Virginia, Muellers team has charged Manafort with five counts of filing false income tax returns, four counts of failing to report foreign bank and financial accounts, and nine counts of bank fraud or bank conspiracy, related to his handling of money he made doing work for Ukraines government.

This was a hearing in the Virginia case, for which the trial is currently scheduled to take place in July. Manafort has filed a motion to dismiss this indictment  arguing that Mueller overreached his mandate by charging him with crimes unrelated to Russian interference with the campaign.

When Manaforts team made this same argument in court in DC, the presiding judge, Amy Berman Jackson, seemed skeptical. (She hasnt yet ruled on the motion, though she did dismiss an accompanying civil suit filed by Manafort.)

But Manafort may have found a more receptive audience with Judge Ellis, in Virginia, a 77-year-old Ronald Reagan appointee.

I dont see what relation this indictment has with what the special counsel is authorized to investigate, Ellis said, according to Politicos Josh Gerstein. What you really care about is what information Mr. Manafort could give you that would reflect on Mr. Trump or lead to his prosecution or impeachment.

Though Ellis didnt issue a ruling, Brandi Buchman of Courthouse News reports that he asked to review an unredacted copy of a memo from last August, in which Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein authorized Mueller to investigate crimes related to Manaforts Ukraine work. Muellers team revealed the memos existence in court filings, but the vast majority of it is redacted.

If Ellis does in fact end up dismissing Manaforts Virginia indictment (and, for what its worth, many smart court reporters are skeptical that he ultimately will), it wouldnt get Manafort completely out of the woods, as hed still face charges in Washington. But it would be a dramatic defeat for Mueller, with major implications for his strategy as a whole  which, it seems, has relied heavily on bringing or threatening unrelated charges against Trump associates to try to get them to flip.