Prince Harry has arrived at Windsor Castle, with his best man, the Duke of Cambridge, ahead of his marriage to Meghan Markle.

Ms Markle is on her way to St George's Chapel, where members of the Royal Family have taken their seats.

Among the 600 guests are Oprah Winfrey, George and Amal Clooney, David and Victoria Beckham and Sir Elton John.

The ceremony will begin at noon, before the newly-married couple travel through the town.

Prince Harry has been made the Duke of Sussex by the Queen, with Ms Markle becoming the Duchess of Sussex.

The prince, who is sixth in line to the throne, also received the titles Earl of Dumbarton and Baron Kilkeel.

Thousands of well-wishers are arriving in Windsor, while hundreds more camped out overnight to secure the best viewing spot.

Prince Charles will walk Ms Markle down the aisle, after her father, Thomas, was unable to attend for health reasons.

On the eve of their wedding, Prince Harry, 33, told crowds in Windsor he was feeling "relaxed" and Ms Markle, 36, said she was feeling "wonderful".

In her vows, Ms Markle will not promise to "obey" her husband and Prince Harry has chosen to have a wedding ring.

Prince Harry's ring will be a platinum band with a textured finish and Ms Markle's has been made from a piece of Welsh gold, Kensington Palace said.

Prince Harry's uncle, Earl Spencer, the Duchess of York, Sarah Ferguson, and the Duchess of Cambridge's sister Pippa Middleton, have also arrived for the service.

Politicians, including Prime Minister Theresa May, were not invited, as the wedding is not a state event.

But the former Prime Minister, Sir John Major, is among the invited guests.

About 1,200 members of the public - many who are recognised for their charity work - have been invited into the grounds of Windsor Castle for the wedding.

This is a very different royal wedding.

It's different because of the style of the arrangements for the day itself.

From small things, like the cake (not a traditional big heavy fruitcake covered with bullet-proof icing), to bigger things, like a gospel choir performing at the service.

To more remarkable decisions, like the invitation to 1,200 members of the public to enjoy the occasion in the grounds of Windsor Castle.

After the death in 1997 of Prince Harry's mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, she was described by the-then Prime Minister Tony Blair as "the people's princess".

This may not be "the people's wedding", but it is about as close to it as any royal wedding has got.

Crowds of well-wishers and the world's media have been gathering in Windsor all week, with up to 100,000 people expected to line the town's streets on Saturday afternoon.

Ms Markle has 10 bridesmaids and pageboys, all under the age of eight - including Prince George and Princess Charlotte.

The bride will be met by Prince Charles, who will walk her down the aisle of the Quire of the chapel.

During the service, the couple will pledge themselves to one another, saying: "For better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part."

The Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, the 27th presiding bishop and primate of the Episcopal Church, from Chicago, will give an address at the wedding and the Rt Rev David Conner, Dean of Windsor, will conduct the service.

Lady Jane Fellowes, the sister of Prince Harry's late mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, will give a reading.

As the bride and groom sign the register, 19-year-old cellist Sheku Kanneh-Mason - who won the 2016 BBC's Young Musician - will perform three pieces - by Faure, Schubert and Maria Theresia von Paradis, with musicians from the BBC National Orchestra of Wales, the English Chamber Orchestra and the Philharmonia.

Karen Gibson and The Kingdom Choir will perform Ben E. King's soul classic Stand By Me during the service.

The gospel choir will also perform Etta James' uplifting version of Amen/This Little Light of Mine as the newlyweds leave the chapel.

Following the service, a carriage procession will travel along a route including Castle Hill, High Street, Sheet Street, Kings Road, Albert Road, Long Walk and back to Windsor Castle.

All 600 guests will then attend a lunchtime reception at St George's Hall, which is being given by the Queen.

During this reception, Ms Markle will reportedly break with tradition for royal brides and make a speech.

Later in the evening, the newlyweds will celebrate with 200 close friends and family at a private reception less than a mile from Windsor Castle at Frogmore House, hosted by Prince Charles.

The Royal Family will pay for the wedding, including the service, music, flowers and reception.

Full coverage of the day will be on BBC One until 14:00 BST on Saturday, on BBC Radio 5 live and streamed live on the BBC News website or on BBC iPlayer.