Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is out after a little over a year in office. President Donald Trump announced on Twitter on Tuesday that the former Exxon CEO will be replaced by Mike Pompeo, director of the CIA. Gina Haspel will take over Pompeos job, becoming the first woman to hold the spot. Thank you to Rex Tillerson for his great service! Trump tweeted on Tuesday.

Tillersons exit brings to an end a tumultuous tenure  and one of the shortest of any secretary of state in modern history. Tillerson would be at or near the bottom of the list of secretaries of state, not just in the post-Second World War world but in the record of US secretaries of state, Paul Musgrave, a scholar of US foreign policy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, told Voxs Zack Beauchamp.

Tillersons departure is unlikely to quash reports of chaos within the White House ranks. Then again, this White House seems to be facing a staff shake-up in perpetuity. So heres a look at officials whove resigned or been fired in the slightly more than a year that Trump has been in office.

Tillerson was ousted on March 13 and replaced by CIA Director Mike Pompeo amid various clashes with President Trump.

John McEntee, President Trumps personal assistant, was escorted out of the White House on March 12, according to the Wall Street Journal, after being fired over an unspecified security issue.

Cohn resigned as the Trump administration appeared ready to move ahead on tariffs, a policy he opposed.

Raffel, who worked closely with Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, is leaving during speculation about Kushners status within the administration.

Hicks, one of Trumps closest and longest-serving aides, resigned in February after a turbulent few weeks.

Brand, the No. 3 official at the Justice Department, resigned after nine months on the job. She left for a job in the private sector, but she departed amid Trumps continued attacks on the Justice Department and federal law enforcement.

Porter resigned amid domestic abuse allegations and revelations that despite controlling the paper flow of sensitive documents to Trumps desk, he had not obtained a long-term security clearance.

Fitzgerald resigned amid allegations of a conflict of interest; she had purchased shares in a tobacco company a month before assuming her job.

McCabe left the FBI at the end of January, though he planned to retire in March, after he became the target of the administration and congressional Republicans over allegations of anti-Trump bias at the FBI.

Dearborn stepped down for a job in the private sector around the one-year mark of Trumps tenure.

Manigault-Newman resigned (though early reports suggested she was fired in dramatic fashion) to pursue other opportunities, which included CBSs reality TV show Celebrity Big Brother.

One of the so-called adults in the room, Powell had been working closely with Middle East policy and departed the White House around the one-year mark.

Price resigned amid mounting scandals, including his use of taxpayer money to charter flights and his investments in health care stocks, which raised questions about conflicts of interest.

Gorka said he resigned; the White House implied he was fired. Either way, the controversial adviser  he was linked to far-right Hungarian groups  parted ways with the administration in August and began making regular appearances on Fox News.

Trumps firebrand populist adviser left the White House in August following months of turmoil and his penchant for talking to reporters.

Icahn said he had stopped advising Trump in August, though he also claimed he never had a formal role with the administration. The billionaire friend of Trumps was plagued by conflict of interest questions before he relinquished his role.

The embattled and increasingly sidelined press secretary resigned in July after Anthony Scaramucci was appointed White House communications director. And speaking of that...

In what might be the record for shortest tenure, Scaramucci was fired after just 10 days at his job in the White House. He was reportedly ousted by Chief of Staff John Kelly, though an expletive-laced interview probably didnt help.

Priebus said he resigned, though it appeared he was unceremoniously ousted after Trump announced his successor, John Kelly, on Twitter and reportedly kicked him out of the presidential motorcade. Priebuss departure wasnt a surprise; weeks of reports suggested Trump was on the verge of axing him.

Shaub, the ethics watchdog appointed during President Barack Obamas second term, resigned in July. He had sharply criticized the Trump administration over ethics questions; hes now working with an outside ethics watchdog.

You probably know this one by now. Trump officially fired Comey because of his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation, but he later admitted it was because he was angry with the Russia investigation. The fallout from Comeys firing precipitated the appointment of special counsel Robert Mueller.

The first, but definitely not the last, communications director to resign. He lasted about three months.

Walsh, an ally of Priebuss, left the administration after about two months to work for an outside pro-Trump group. Walshs notoriety rose months after her departure, and she was widely quoted in Michael Wolffs Fury and Fury on the White House dysfunction (some of which she disputes).

McFarland was forced out after H.R. McMaster took over as national security adviser. She was nominated as ambassador to Singapore but withdrew her nomination in February because shes come under scrutiny in Muellers probe.

Flynn resigned under increasing pressure after it appeared he lied to Vice President Mike Pence and the FBI about his contacts with Russians during the presidential transition. He has since pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI in special counsel Muellers investigation into the Trump campaign and Russian interference in the 2016 elections.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions asked for the resignations of all 46 Obama-appointed US attorneys  a customary practice when a new president takes office. But Bhararas case stood out because Trump had reportedly asked him to stay on during the transition. Bharara refused to resign; Trump fired him.

An Obama administration holdover, Yates was fired after she refused to defend Trumps executive order that temporarily barred people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from traveling to the US.