There was something off about President Donald Trumps decision to fire Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Tuesday.

Back in the fall, the line of succession was supposed to look like this:

But on Tuesday, when the president finally decided to fire Tillerson, it didnt go quite according to plan. Pompeo was indeed elevated to the State Department  but Cotton was left in the Senate. Instead, Gina Haspel was named as Trumps new CIA director. She will be, notably, the first woman nominated to the post and is a seasoned spy who briefly oversaw a torture black site in Thailand during the George W. Bush years, per CBS News.

So what happened? It depends on whom you ask. But the inescapable lesson is this: Trumps administration has become so radioactive that the president cant bring in one of his partys most promising stars, one of his closest allies in the Republican establishment, to take such a prominent post.

The White House is in the midst of a scary staffing crisis, shedding officials who have mustered at least some experience running the federal government and failing to attract top talent to replace them. Cotton, whatever the reason for his being skipped over for the CIA directorship, is just the latest example of how the poisonous environs created by Trump are undermining his ability to build his own administration.

There are at least three different theories out there to explain why Trump decided to tap Haspel to lead the CIA instead of Cotton. They arent necessarily mutually exclusive either; it could have been a combination of the following:

However you look at it, the first two theories tell the same story: The national political environment is so unfavorable to Republicans that the White House had real fears that they could lose a Senate seat in Arkansas (a state Trump won by 27 points in 2016). And Cotton, as fervent a Trump true believer as you will find in the United State Congress, is harboring real doubts that his president can win again in 2020.

The wildest part is neither of those lines of thinking is illogical.

In December, Republicans lost an open Senate seat  one that Trump had also opened up by picking Jeff Sessions to be his attorney general  in Alabama, where Trump beat Hillary Clinton by an even bigger margin than he did in Arkansas. Sure, that might have been in part because the GOP nominee was a credibly accused child predator, but the Republican establishment has proven pretty bad at getting its preferred nominee elected in primaries. It was apparently too big a risk.

On Cottons end, looking ahead to 2020 and his own presidential ambitions, he should absolutely be wary of attaching himself too tightly to Trump. This is a president who, at the end of his first year in the White House, had the lowest approval rating ever even as the economy continued to perform relatively well. That is quite a feat, given how tightly the economy and presidential approval ratings are usually linked.

It is certainly true that the Senate probably is a better launching pad for a presidential campaign whenever Cotton decides to run  George H.W. Bush is the only CIA director to reach the White House. But that was already true back in October and November when the Cotton-to-CIA hype was its hottest and his friends were telling Axios that he would serve if called.

Something changed. The simplest explanation is that Trumps political standing, even within his own party, has eroded to such a degree that the Arkansas Senate seat could be in jeopardy and Cotton now doubts the presidents reelection viability.

In Langley, maybe this doesnt matter much. Haspel is certainly qualified, from a resume point of view, and seems to share Cottons comfort with torture.

But the strange case of Tom Cotton and the CIA is emblematic of Trumps struggle to attract, as he loves to say, the best people. It is a fierce ouroboros: Trumps incompetence feeds his struggle to recruit his preferred candidates. Given the trajectory of his presidency, it is probably only going to get worse.