This week marks the first national test of teenage activism against gun violence.

Students across the country will walk out of class at 10 am local time on Wednesday, March 14, for the National Student Walkout, which takes place on the one-month anniversary of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. The walkout, with the tagline #EnoughIsEnough, will last 17 minutes  one minute for each person murdered in Parkland.

The walkout is partly a protest to push lawmakers to pass gun reform and partly a memorial to honor victims killed by firearms. Elementary, middle, and high schools and some colleges are participating in the event, organized by Womens March Youth Empower.

More than 2,500 walkouts are planned at schools nationwide (and a few internationally), according to Womens March Youth Empower. Students will march, make signs, observe moments of silence, hand out orange ribbons to symbolize gun violence awareness, and read poems and essays about the personal scars gun violence has left behind.

The walkout unfolds amid a reinvigorated national debate over gun control and school safety, sparked by student survivors of the Parkland shooting. The teenagers have advocated vocally and relentlessly for new gun restrictions and called out lawmakers for inaction. They have repeated the mantra never again, a promise to make the slaughter in their high school the last.

Now the generation of students that grew up performing lockdown drills in school are echoing those calls in their own schools and communities. So are those teenagers who live in neighborhoods where gun violence isnt an aberration but is woven into everyday life. They are joined by educators and parents who are angry and scared  but also inspired by the energy and purpose of their pupils and kids.

I just think its so important in this time because we really have such a big and important stage to have our voices heard, said Aidan Murphy, a 16-year-old junior whos organizing the walkout at Quincy High School in Quincy, Massachusetts. Right now is a time that change seems like its so close, and the youth, all these high schoolers across the country, are the ones that are going to push us over that line.

Students at Corvallis High School in Corvallis, Oregon, will stream onto the football field at 10 am, where the scoreboard will count down 17 minutes and the organizers will outline 17 action points. At Audubon Park Elementary in Orlando, Florida, fifth-grade students will observe a moment of silence for the Parkland victims; younger students will participate in age-appropriate observances, and their parents will write letters to Congress and the White House. At Unity Prep Charter in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, middle school students are making posters, which theyll hand out and display as they march around the block.

At Carson High School in Carson, California, students will gather in the quad area. Guest speakers will talk about their views on the Second Amendment; others will share their personal experiences with gun violence. At Philip Barbour High School in Philippi, West Virginia, the heart of Trump country, students will observe a moment of silence and release 17 balloons to honor the Parkland victims. They say they might live-stream the event or make a video and later post it on Facebook.

These are just some of the thousands of walkout events planned across the country on Wednesday. Organizers are tailoring their activism to fit their schools and deciding on what might rally the student body and fit with students goals. Were actually putting in a lot of planning, Murphy, the Quincy High student, said. We didnt want it to be [that] we just walk and out stand there.

We want to walk out and say something, he added.

Cadie McNaboe, a 17-year-old senior at Philip Barbour High School, said the gun culture in her area is something she had to take into account, which is why the students will observe a moment of silence and release balloons. Its not necessarily for gun control but for gun safety and anti-gun violence, she said.

The conversation is personal at McNaboes school. About two years ago, an armed student threatened the school, holding students hostage for more than an hour. No one was hurt, but theyve been talking about school safety since.

It is a challenge, McNaboe said. You want students to feel safe; you want students to feel at home. But in this area in particular, you cant say, guns blazing, Were going to take away all guns. Youve got to be very clear.

I think with this movement, in particular, theyre doing a good job so far of saying we want to compromise but we dont want to compromise our values necessarily, she added.

Students and teachers who spoke to Vox said their school administrations have been largely supportive  not exactly loving having to plan for a midday disruption, but coordinating with students to honor their right to protest and keep students safe during the walkout.

My principal came up to me; he said, We cant condone this in any way, but he gave me a wink, Fiorina Talaba, an 18-year-old senior at Carson High in California, told Vox.

She added that after the walkout, the participants will make a point to go directly back to class. We want to show that its not, like, taking over our schooling. Our education is most important, she said.

That wink from administrators hasnt been the case at all schools across the country. A school district in Texas threatened students with three-day suspensions if they participated in walkouts. The superintendent in Prince William County, Virginia, had also said students would be disciplined but walked back that statement amid pressure.

The Supreme Court has held that students at public schools have a First Amendment right to express their political views but schools also have a right to ensure that learning isnt disrupted. The American Civil Liberties Union has warned some schools that have threatened to discipline students.

Arielle Geismar, a 16-year-old junior at the Beacon School in Manhattan, said her school administrators were primarily focused on student safety. There definitely was pushback in terms of disrupting classes, she said. But were going to be loud, and were not going to apologize for that. I think thats also the point of the walkout. Were going to make ourselves heard whether you want to hear it or not.

And just as the rest of the country is divided on gun control, so are student bodies. Some student organizers predicted hundreds of students would join in the event at their schools but knew others would sit out because they disagreed with the political stance. Our school is pretty split politically, so there have been people who have been clear and said that they dont support it and say that its unnecessary, Murphy, the junior from Massachusetts, said, adding that he still thinks the non-supporters are a minority and participation will be high.

The walkouts are entirely student-led, and the Womens March Youth Empower advised non-students who support the cause to keep away from campuses. Instead, the group recommends that those who want to show solidarity walk out from their offices for 17 minutes or wear orange to signal support.

The Parkland survivors ignited a new gun control movement by finding a platform in their tragedy. David Hogg rode his bike to school after the shooting to film as a journalist and then found himself on Fox News, where he said there couldnt be another mass shooting. Emma Gonzalezs speech led to a chant: We call BS. Cameron Kasky challenged Florida Sen. Marco Rubio on accepting donations from the National Rifle Association during a CNN town hall.

Student activists are tired of being numb to school shootings, of simply moving on, of referring to another school shooting. Some have watched guns steal away family, friends, and classmates.

Kari Gottfried, a junior at Corvallis High School in Oregon, is 17; she wasnt even born when the shooting at Columbine High School happened. Ive never known a world where there arent mass shootings, she said.

Gottfried and her fellow student activists feel this issue personally. They were in middle school when the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting happened  old enough to understand the savagery, young enough to remember their own elementary school classrooms. Theyve grown up with active shooter drills, watched protocol morph in response to the latest tragedy. Gottfried said that now if the fire alarm goes off, students are told to go into lockdown mode. Its more likely there would be a shooter than a fire in Corvallis, she said.

Were no strangers to gun violence, Talaba, the senior from Carson High in California, said of herself and her fellow students. When we heard about the shooting in Florida, it really spoke to us, and we wanted to have some type of change.

The teenage activists have another thing in common: social media. Students across the country are connecting with each other, sharing strategies and stories. In just less than a month, there have been thousands of schools that have signed up to do this walkout, McNaboe, from rural West Virginia, said. And I think thats really the presence of social media, and our generations grasp has been so effective.

Geismar from Manhattan called it an urgency of collaboration.

Our generation is so easily discredited as the social media generation, always on our phones, she said. But look what social media has done for this movement. It turned into this national thing.

The walkout is just the first in a series of youth-led demonstrations of activism around gun violence. The March for Our Lives on March 24 will bring students to Washington, DC, and other cities to protest. Next month, students will walk out of classrooms on April 20, the 19th anniversary of the Columbine shooting.

Its only just beginning, Lane Murdock, a sophomore at Ridgefield High School in Connecticut who organized the April 20 walkout and is participating in an event on March 14, told Vox. Its big enough that it scares me, she said of the movement.

Students are also pushing for gun reform with the National School Walkout. Theyre focusing on small actions  what teenagers can do to get more involved, including registering to vote and writing to lawmakers.

But the teenagers can already claim some victories. The big one: refusing to let the country move on and forget.

And that has put pressure on lawmakers to act. Staunchly pro-gun Florida bucked the NRA to pass the first gun restrictions in the state in more than 20 years, in consultation with the families of Parkland victims. The law increased the age to purchase a firearm to 21, instituted a three-day waiting period, and created a system for police to petition to remove guns from someone deemed a threat. It put millions of dollars toward school safety and mental health initiatives, though it included a very controversial, voluntary program to arm some school employees.

Dozens of other states passed new gun safety measured in the aftermath of Parkland or are mulling new restrictions. Kansas, New York, and some other states are considering legislation similar to Floridas that would allow for judges to temporarily remove guns if people are deemed a threat. These red flag laws existed in five states before the Parkland shooting. Rhode Islands governor signed an executive order to institute such a policy after Parkland.

Washington state banned bump stocks, devices that effectively let semiautomatic weapons function like fully automatic ones. Cincinnati, Ohio, wants to do the same. Illinois is trying to pass a measure that would require criminal background checks for all gun shop employees; the Parkland shooting has reanimated debate over the legislation.

And some states have backed away from loosening gun control laws. Iowa is letting a bill die that would have removed the permit requirement to carry weapons.

The Trump administration took steps to ban bump stocks in the wake of Parkland and just released a school safety plan. It calls for risk protection orders to confiscate weapons from those deemed a threat and has a proposal to arm teachers.

It also calls on Congress to pass the Fix NICS Act, a bipartisan bill introduced after the Sutherland Springs, Texas, shooting to strengthen the background check system. The White Houses plan is largely NRA-friendly  but the White House did not take similar action in the wake of massacres in Las Vegas or Sutherland Springs.

Students activist said theyre open to different ideas and debates about the Second Amendment. Geismar said she and her fellow activists are just looking for middle ground. Its not Republican or Democrat; its about keeping people safe, she said.

Talaba said she and her fellow students were focused particularly on mental health. She believes tighter background checks will help. But she also sees that as a first incremental, achievable step.

The walkout is a chance to stake out their role in this debate. I just dont like how congressmen, or these older people, just dont see that even us kids, we can have these very serious conversations, Talaba said. We know what we want from our society: to have less guns and, at some point, no guns at all.

It is also a reminder for lawmakers to listen and take these student activists seriously. All they can do now is lobby for change. But soon theyll be the ones with the power to decide politicians fates  if not in 2018, then in 2020.

The youthfulness to our movement is kind of empowering because look at this  look at how much time we have left in our generations lifetime to advocate for change and to make that change happen, McNaboe said.

Were not stopping, she said. Im not stopping. And I dont think anyone else is either.

Correction: An earlier version of this post incorrectly identified Gottfried as a high school senior. She is a junior.