Senate Republicans are struggling to find a way to defend President Donald Trumps acclaim for North Koreas Kim Jong Un.

Trump told ABC News you see the fervor in North Koreans love for their leader, whom he called very talented after their historic summit in Singapore.

They were shocking comments for those following the human rights situation in North Korea. The country ranks 167th out of 167 in the Economists Democracy Index, and 180th out of 180 in the Heritage Foundations Index of Economic Freedom. A 2017 International Bar Association report cited evidence of systematic murder (including infanticide), torture, persecution of Christians, rape, forced abortions, starvation and overwork leading to countless deaths, and other crimes against humanity. The United Nations said the conditions in North Korea are unparalleled in the world.

Some Senate Republicans cited Kim as a despot tyrant, but others were reluctant to weigh in on the presidents apparent esteem for the North Korean leader.

Look, I think we all know the president uses a lot of hyperbole, Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN), once a fierce Trump critic, told Vox.

Trump acknowledged the humanitarian crisis by calling it a rough situation over there but equivocated conditions in North Korea with those in other parts of the world. Its rough in a lot of places, by the way, not just there, he told the press Tuesday.

Vox asked nine Republican senators whether it was appropriate for Trump to say that the people of North Korea love their leader and support him with fervor. Here are the transcripts of those exchanges, lightly edited for length and style.

Was it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader?

Look, I think what we have is a summit where Kim Jong Un agreed to denuclearization. Hopefully, that advances peace. Clearly, there is more work to be done. Obviously, we need more information on the details of the summit 

But was it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader?

I hope what we focus on is the fact that we are moving toward denuclearization, which will address many of the egregious actions that the heinous regime has carried out.

So do you think it was appropriate for the president to say?

Did you find it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love Kim Jong Un?

I dont have a comment on that. I wasnt there. I dont know the context. The president is entitled to say what he wants to say. This is America.

Was it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader?

Look, I think we all know the president uses a lot of hyperbole.

I dont know. I dont know. I just  thats the nature. And we need to deal with the concrete things that have occurred, and hopefully we find out what those are.

Did you find it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader?

Now, I think he did a great job over there, and Im glad it happened.

On North Korea, was it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader?

Um. Well, everything I know about Kim Jong Un is that he is a despot tyrant and he is harmful to the people of North Korea.

So when the president comes out of the summit and says this, does that give an indication about his concerns about the human rights abuses?

Thats not my understanding of what leader Kim Jong Un is.

I wanted to ask, was it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader and support him with fervor?

Did he say that?

I wouldnt have said that, but ... [trails off]

Does that erase any of the humanitarian concerns?

I think they raised humanitarian concerns, and well continue to raise them too.

What did you make of the presidents comments after the summit when he said the people of North Korea love their leader and that they support him with fervor?

[Laughs] Thats not a statement I would have made. Statements like that  that hes a very talented leader  I mean, hes a brutal dictator. Lets call it what it is.

Is there concern that the United States wont address the humanitarian concerns in the country?

There is concern  and I can understand separating that right now from the other, but that still doesnt excuse using effusive language to refer to someone who is a very brutal dictator. And this wasnt a one-off. This is happening again and again and again. Heaping praise on people like [Philippine President Rodrigo] Duterte or [Russian President Vladimir] Putin for their strong leadership when its really just brutal leadership.

Did you find it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader and support him with fervor?

Well, I havent talked to the president yet since hes going to get back tonight. So Im not going to comment on anything that reporting said.

Okay, he said that to the press.

Was it appropriate for the president to say that the people of North Korea love their leader?

Ive got no comment on it.