MSNBC host Katy Tur posited Tuesday whether the US Constitution was still relevant in 2018, because Americans are much more progressive than they were in 1776 (even though the Constitution wasnt penned until 1787).

Based on where Americans stand on the issues, and Americans have really moved in a much more progressive direction over the years, do you think its appropriate to continue to take such a strict, originalist view of the Constitution, given its 2018 and not 1776? Tur asked Republican guest J.D. Vance during a discussion on Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.

Vance didnt expressly answer the question, instead noting simply I dont know that Americans have become more progressive on everything.

Still, Tur forged ahead with the angle of redefining the Constitution.

Well, the arc of history has shown that opinions have become more progressive, and even just lately on the issues that are potentially going to become before the court, or issues that have been ruled on relatively recently by the Court, Americans are more progressive, Tur said, adding Look at the polling.

Arguing that Kavanaugh is more strict and less progressive, Tur said that It seems now the argument is no, the American people shouldnt have a choice.

Its all about the Constitution. It feels like conservatives are trying to have their cake and eat it too on this issue. she added.

Reacting to the segment on Laura Ingrahams Fox News show, the host called Tur a esteemed would-be jurist, before conservative commentator Ben Shapiro weighed in, noting just how dumb Turs comments were.

Oh, the levels of stupid, Shapiro reacted. 1776, the Constitution was not yet written, Number One. Number Two: If you believe that America has evolved beyond the Constitution, it has an amendment process. Also, we have legislatures that you can elect. Shapiro noted.

And finally, the idea that any of this justifies the Supreme Court moving away from the text of a law simply so that they can interpret the Constitution as poetry is more evidence that the left wants the Supreme Court to simply be a super legislature as opposed to, you know, an actual judiciary that is using judgment instead of will, as per Alexander Hamilton in Federalist 78. Shapiro continued.