Congressional leaders were rushing on Thursday to pass a far-reaching, bipartisan budget deal that would raise federal spending levels for the next two years as lawmakers run up against yet another midnight deadline to avoid a government shutdown.

But the deal that leaders have touted as a significant bipartisan achievement, faces fresh opposition from staunch Republican conservatives and from Democrats who are frustrated the measure does not address immigration reform.

The Senate was expected to pass the measure with strong support from Democrats and Republicans on Thursday before sending the bill to the House, where its fate was less certain.

The plan agreed to by Republicans and Democrats would raise defense and non-defense spending by $300bn and provide billions of additional dollars in disaster relief funding for areas ravaged by wildfires and hurricanes last year. It would also lift the federal debt limit until March 2019, allowing the government to take on new debt for the next year.

Perhaps most urgently, the measure would fund the government for another six weeks, through 23 March, while lawmakers draft the long-term spending bill that would run through the rest of the fiscal year. Funding for the federal government expires at midnight on Thursday.

But the deal does not resolve the thorny issue of immigration reform, an issue that has bedeviled lawmakers for decades. Democrats sought to bind the issue of immigration to budget negotiations as a way of exerting leverage over Republicans and forcing a vote on legislation that would protect young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. 



The Senate Republican majority leader, Mitch McConnell, unveiled the deal, which stretches to more than 650 pages, on Wednesday.

McConnell said in a floor speech ahead of the vote. This is our best chance to begin rebuilding our military and make progress on issues directly affecting the American people.

The Senate appeared to have the votes to pass the budget bill  and little appetite for a shutdown, after a failure to reach an agreement last month led to a brief, three-day shutdown of the federal government.

Senate Democrats relented and allowed the government to reopen only after extracting a promise from McConnell that he would allow a debate on legislation to protect the Dreamers, young people whose protections from deportations Trump has ordered to expire on 5 March.

But the calculus is less certain in the House, where opposition to a budget deal runs across the political spectrum.

Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, said she would not support the measure without a firm commitment from the speaker, Paul Ryan, to allow an open debate on immigration reform. She said she hoped Ryan would man up and make the same pledge McConnell made to Senate Democrats.

Pelosi spent a record eight hours speaking on the House floor on Wednesday in an attempt to persuade Republicans to allow a vote on immigration legislation.

Pelosi on Thursday said she believed the budget agreement was a good bill.

Im pleased with the product, Pelosi said of the deal, which her staff helped negotiate. Im not pleased with the process. But asked if she would pressure her caucus to oppose the bill, she said: Im just telling people why Im voting the way Im voting.

Hours later, House Democratic leadership sent a notice to members urging them to vote against the budget measure, according to a Democratic aide. That notice was then followed by a note from Pelosi that outlined her opposition to the bill but stopped short of directing members how to vote.

The advisories created confusion among House Democrats, and by mid-afternoon a meeting was scheduled to discuss the budget deal. 



Meanwhile, on the other side of the Capitol, Republican Senator Rand Paul stalled a vote on the budget deal in an effort to win a concession from leadership to bring to the floor his amendment to restore the budget caps. If the impasse is not resolved, the earliest the Senate could take up the vote would be early Friday morning, after the government runs out of funding.

Ryan, meanwhile, was still wrangling support from his caucus in the House as the clock ticked toward a midnight deadline.

Dozens of House Republicans are expected to oppose the legislation because of its impact on the federal debt and the increase in spending on domestic programs. Ryan nevertheless expressed confidence that the House would gather enough votes to pass the two-year spending bill.

He also said he would commit to bring immigration legislation the president would sign to the floor. He added that Congress must pass the budget so that lawmakers could turn to immigration, which must be resolved by next month.

To anyone who doubts my intention to solve this problem and bring up a Daca and immigration reform bill, do not, Ryan said.