Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader in the US House of Representatives, has given a record-breaking eight-hour speech in an attempt to persuade Republicans to allow a vote on protecting Dreamers, young undocumented immigrants brought to the US as children.

Pelosi, 77, spent much of her speech reading personal letters from young immigrants whose temporary protection from deportation is set to expire next month.

She also quoted from the Bible and Pope Francis, while Democrats took turns sitting behind her in support. The Office of the House Historian said it was the longest continuous speech in the chamber on record.

You see, these people are being deported, Pelosi said around hour six. We can do something today to at least make whole the children.

Earlier on Wednesday Senate leaders announced a far-reaching agreement that would set federal spending levels for the next two years but failed to resolve the thorny issue of immigration reform.

The Democrats leader in the Senate, Chuck Schumer, said: The budget deal doesnt have everything Democrats want, it doesnt have everything Republicans want, but it has a great deal of what the American people want.

The legislation could face barriers in the House without a commitment from the speaker, Paul Ryan, to consider legislation that would protect Dreamers.



Pelosis marathon speech seemed partly aimed at the liberal wing of her own party, who seethed as Senate Democrats cut a budget deal that could stall momentum behind the effort to resolve the Dreamers plight.

She warned that without a promise to debate immigration legislation, a large number of members of our caucus would not support the budget deal, which could lead to the second US government shutdown this year.



Donald Trump has expressed a desire to protect Dreamers, but only if there are also measures to strengthen border enforcement, fund a border wall and restrict the legal immigration system.

The fate of Dreamers was thrown into jeopardy when the Trump administration ended the Deferred Action for Child Arrivals (Daca) programme. Trump gave Congress until 5 March to find a legislative solution.

Senate Democrats appear to have little appetite for another shutdown, but on Tuesday Trump said he would welcome another shutdown if they refused to yield to his hardline demands on immigration.



Trump said: Id love to see a shutdown if we cant get this stuff taken care of.