Republican donors, who collectively donated $50 million in the 2016 election cycle, seem to be holding back this year.

Why? Theyre upset they didnt get as big a tax cut as corporations did in the tax law President Donald Trump signed into law late last year.

A new report in CNN found that a number of top GOP donors  namely those who lead major hedge funds  havent been as generous with the official Republican House and Senate campaign arms this year, and it all comes down to some testiness over the tax bill:

Well-known Republican donors like Paul Singer of Elliott Management, who is among the top 10 GOP donors, and Warren Stephens of Stephens Inc. and Citadels Ken Griffin, who are among the top 20 donors, have yet to make major contributions to the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) and National Republican Senate Committee (NRSC).

To be sure, as CNN pointed out, these top donors havent held back from contributing altogether (Singer gave six figures to the Republican National Committee, and others are donating to campaigns in their states). Not to mention that Republicans just won a massive $30 million contribution from billionaire casino mogul Sheldon Adelson to the GOP-tied Congressional Leadership Fund  a Super PAC that will be crucial to boosting Republican candidates in House races this year. But its notable many are withholding donations to the NRSC and NRCC.

Needless to say, theres some comedic value to this boycott. The tax bill, if anything, is a boon for the wealthiest Americans. While its true the massive corporate tax cut is a centerpiece of the reforms, the law also lowers the top individual rate, maintains the charitable deduction and the preferred rate for capital gains, and rolls back the estate tax. By 2027, 82.8 percent of the bills windfall would go to the top 1 percent, according to a Tax Policy Center analysis.

Nevertheless, these hedge fund managers appear upset that they didnt get a bigger piece of the tax cuts. In a year when Democrats look poised to mount a significant challenge to the Republican-controlled Congress and Republicans are being pushed to pour millions into races once seen as easy wins, this development could prove to be a vulnerability.

Republicans see the tax bill as a centerpiece of their messaging strategy for 2018, a spokesperson for the NRCC, the official campaign arm for House Republicans, told the Washington Post. The law is getting more popular both in public and internal polls. Voters dont need to take our word for it; they can see the companies announcing bonuses and perks for themselves, the spokesperson, Matt Gorman, said.

The bill hasnt been able to bring in too many electoral wins yet. Instead, the tax bill proved to be a failing message in a Trump +20 district in Pennsylvania, and many Republicans are worried that may become a trend across the country.

Washington Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, who leads the House Republican conference, and other GOP leaders argued the country hadnt yet experienced the full momentum of tax reform after Republicans lost the special election in Pennsylvania. But its not a good sign that Republican donors also have gripes about the tax overhaul.

The whole saga invites the question: Is the tax bill failing with both Republican donors and voters?