Special counsel Robert Mueller filed a new indictment Friday that added more charges against former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort and brought the first charges against a longtime associate of Manaforts with ties to Russian intelligence: Konstantin Kilimnik.

The new indictment, filed in Washington, DC, court, includes five earlier charges against Manafort but adds two new counts of obstruction of justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice against both Manafort and Kilimnik. These are the first new charges filed in Muellers probe since late February.

These new charges are about alleged witness tampering that Mueller alluded to in a court filing earlier this week. Mueller claims that after Manafort was indicted this February, he and Kilimnik repeatedly contacted two people theyd worked with in the past in an effort to secure materially false testimony in the case.

The special counsel says hes obtained encrypted messaging, call records, and witness testimony to back him up. Already this week, hes argued that Manaforts pending release on bail should be blocked. But now hes officially filed new charges on the matter. You can read the new filing here.

The underlying matter is not Russian collusion or interference with the campaign  Manafort has not faced any charges about that  but Manaforts work for the pro-Russian Ukrainian government several years back.

Over the past year, Mueller charged Manafort with five counts in Washington, DC, and 18 in Virginia related to this lobbying work. The charges include, among other things, conspiracy to defraud the United States, acting as an unregistered agent of a foreign principal, filing false income tax returns, bank fraud, and failure to report foreign financial accounts. Manafort has pleaded not guilty on all of them.

Muellers team claimed in their February indictment that, as part of the Ukraine lobbying, Manafort paid a group of former senior European politicians that he called the Hapsburg group to advocate for Ukraines interests in the United States.

Manafort seemed to believe his strongest defense would be to claim that he did pay these politicians to advocate for Ukraines interests  but only in the European Union, not the United States. And he wanted to make sure that two unnamed people from a PR firm with whom hed worked on the project would stick to that story.

So, per Mueller, within days Manafort tried to reach out to one principal in that PR firm  someone referred to as Person D1 in the indictment. Mueller alleges that:

But Person D1 talked to the FBI instead. He said that, contra Manaforts claims, he knew the Hapsburg group worked in the United States too. And, Mueller alleges, Person D1 thought Manafort was trying to suborn perjury.

Another set of surreptitious communications came from a longtime associate of Manaforts whom the special counsel had previously called Person A. We now know that person is Konstantin Kilimnik, a longtime business associate of Manaforts whos been called his protege.

Mueller claims that in February and April of this year, Kilimnik repeatedly tried to contact the two PR firm principals, on behalf of someone he called my friend P. This person also tried to emphasize Manaforts message that the Hapsburg group never lobbied in the US.

The second PR firm principal, Person D2, also told the FBI that he knew this wasnt true, and that the Hapbsurg group did in fact lobby in the US.

Now, because of these contacts and this testimony, Mueller has charged Manafort and Kilimnik with obstruction of justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice.

When Paul Manafort began to focus his lobbying business in Ukraine and Eastern Europe in the mid-2000s, he needed a right-hand man who could speak the language. For many years, the Soviet-born Konstantin Kilimnik played that role for him. (Manafort called him my Russian brain, according to a recent profile by Franklin Foer in the Atlantic.)

So Kilimnik was very involved in Manaforts Ukrainian lobbying work  the work that has been the basis for Muellers charges against Manafort so far.

Theres something else about Kilimnik thats important to know: Hes been repeatedly linked to Russian intelligence services. Muellers team claimed in a court filing this year that, per the FBI, Kilimnik still has ties to a Russian intelligence service. Additionally, Rick Gates (Manaforts former business partner) has told others that Kilimnik is a former officer of Russias foreign military intelligence agency, the GRU.

While Manafort and Gates worked for Trump during the 2016, they were in contact with Kilimnik.

The exact nature of Kilimniks ties to Russian intelligence, and what he may have been doing for the Russian government, versus what he was doing on his own, remain hazy.

However, the New York Times reported last month that the Ukrainian government had allowed Kilimnik to leave the country and move to Russia, where hes now based. The Times report questioned whether this was an attempt to hinder Muellers investigation by putting an important witness out of his reach.

You can read the new indictment against Manafort and Kilimnik below, or at this link: