Abolish ICE has become the latest rallying cry for Democrats, calling on the federal government to disband the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which has purview over immigration law in the countrys interior.

Now, Republican leaders plan to make Democrats put their votes where their mouths are; Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said he will bring up a vote on Democrats newly released Abolish ICE bill, the Hills Juliegrace Brufke first reported. The bill, proposed by three House progressives in light of the Trump administrations zero tolerance policy at the border, which separated more than 2,000 immigration children from their parents, would abolish ICE within a year.

House Republicans are playing pure politics; after all, only a few months ago Speaker Paul Ryan said the House would only vote on immigration bills that President Donald Trump would sign. Republicans are calculating that Abolish ICE is a losing message for Democrats in the 2018 midterms, especially as Democrats try to flip Republican-leaning districts across the country.

But Democrats are calling Republican leadership on their bluff: the three Democratic co-sponsors of the bill  Reps. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) and Adriano Espaillat  said they will vote no on the bill if Republicans bring it to the floor.

We know Speaker Ryan is not serious about passing our Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act, so members of Congress, advocacy groups, and impacted communities will not engage in this political stunt, the three said in a statement. If Speaker Ryan puts our bill on the floor, we plan to vote no and will instead use the opportunity to force an urgently needed and long-overdue conversation on the House floor.

According to a recent survey by Morning Consult/Politico, 54 percent of the Americans are against abolishing ICE. But voting against the proposal could make them vulnerable to more progressive primary challengers at home  this was, after all, one of the few substantive policy differences between Democratic socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and New York Democrat Rep. Joe Crowley when he lost a House primary.

The Democratic Party has moved substantially to the left on immigration policy over the past few years, and Abolish ICE is a testament to that shift. Already, 2020 hopefuls like Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) have backed the idea.

This vote would undoubtedly put the partys progressive rhetoric to the test.

The Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act was introduced by Pocan, Jayapal, and Espaillat, three progressive House members (Pocan is the chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus). Their bill would terminate the agency within one year of enacting the bill into law, and set up a commission of experts to look for an alternative to the current agency.

Democrats are calling for a human immigration enforcement system, and want the agency to separate its functions dealing with organized crime, drugs, and human trafficking to other established government agencies. This lines up with arguments made by some ICE agents, who recently authored a letter saying they want the agencys functions investigating criminal activity to be separate from its immigration enforcement.

Democrats have been careful not to frame the #AbolishICE movement as a call to have open borders, saying instead that the agency needs a thorough restructuring, especially after Trumps family separation policy and numerous ICE raids that have resulted in undocumented immigrants being deported.

While the movement is growing, there are still a large number of Democrats who have shied away from the slogan and its mission. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) has called for an immediate and fundamental overhaul of the agency, but stopped short of saying it should be terminated altogether.

Now, the three representatives are saying theyll vote against their own bill  and will likely encourage others to do the same. Instead, they will try to use the opportunity to talk about family separation, the need to fix the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program, and their desire to end ICE.

We look forward to the day that we have meaningful action on the issues covered by our bill, the three said.

But other Democrats view the bill coming to the floor as an opportunity.

If the Republicans call a vote, the Democrats can win this debate by putting forward a smart and nuanced policy framework, Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA) told Vox. This bill reforms the abuses in our immigration system and will protect our borders. If we make it clear that we believe in enforcement and protecting our borders, but this bill is about following the recommendations of ICE agents, then it can be a win.

Immigration  President Donald Trumps signature policy issue  is a wild card in the 2018 midterm elections.

Trump and conservative Republicans are running hard to the right on immigration, but warring polls show its not at all clear how voters really see Trumps immigration crackdown, or whether it will help bring out Democrats to the polls in November.

In the last few weeks conflicting points have emerged in a number of polls:

As Bloombergs Sahil Kapur has pointed out, its still not clear how sentiment on immigration, which has long been a white whale for lawmakers in Washington, will play out in November:

Abolish ICE, once thought of as a far-left rallying cry, is certainly being embraced by Democratic stars. But with many Democrats hoping to win back red districts in 2018, many are uneasy about leaning into this issue so publicly before November.