A close tally of Democratic House candidates who have said they wont support House minority leader Nancy Pelosi indicates Democrats would either have to win by a huge margin in order for her to hang onto her top leadership post in 2019  or those newly elected representatives would have to go back on a key campaign promise during their first vote in office.

Pelosi has already said she will run for speaker if Democrats win in 2018. But her path to victory in such a scenario is looking very narrow.

Vox has counted 24 candidates who have publicly said they will not support Pelosi for speaker should Democrats retake the House in 2018. Of those, 18 candidates are on the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committees Red to Blue list, the list of Republican-held districts Democrats consider competitive. Red to Blue is the closest the DCCC comes to endorsing a candidate; those candidates get extra resources to help in their races.

Pelosi faced a leadership challenge from Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) in 2016. Although she won, 63 House Democrats voted for Ryan, a third of the caucus. With Dems still grumbling about how the caucus is run and the impending exit of House Democratic Caucus Chair Joe Crowley (widely considered a Pelosi successor), there are plenty of whispers about who could be next  whispers that Pelosis team is shrugging off.

Leader Pelosi enjoys the overwhelming support of House Democrats and that will continue into the majority shes so focused on winning, said Pelosi spokesperson Drew Hammill in a statement to Vox.

Publicly distancing oneself from Pelosi (while continuing to accept money shes fundraised) is proving to be a politically prudent  and winning  strategy for candidates. It may have helped propel now-Rep. Conor Lamb to a surprise victory in a deeply red Pennsylvania district that Democrats had believed was out of reach.

Red to blue candidates are all trying to win in moderate or red-leaning districts, so it may not be surprising that more are leaning into this tactic. But its notable that the number has grown so much. Its true that some are veiling their opposition in calls for new leadership in both parties, but with Pelosi as the best-known Democrat currently in leadership, its hard to miss who theyre talking about.

At least publicly, Pelosi does not seem to be worried. Shes made it clear she wants Democrats to win at any cost, even if that means theyre publicly campaigning against her. Pelosi, a prolific fundraiser, has already raised nearly $70 million this election cycle, breaking her own previous record.

Here are the Red to Blue list candidates who have said they wont support Pelosi.

Ive said from day one that I wont vote for Nancy Pelosi campaign ad

No. While I respect Representative Pelosis years of advocacy on behalf of California and the Democratic party, new leadership is needed. statement to Politico

I think we need new leadership in both parties and thats just how I feel. interview with the Southern Illinoisan

This is a broken Congress right now, and I think the leaders of both political parties bear responsibility for that. And I think that we need new leadership in both political parties.  interview with USA Today.

Golden has no intention of voting for Nancy Pelosi. None at all. at a Maine voter forum, reported by the Lewiston Sun-Journal

I always believe in being respectful to leaders, particularly women who have broken [glass] ceilings. But I think its clear that on both sides of the aisle, people are seeking new leadership, and Im going to be looking for someone who best represents my district and what we care about here. And I believe thats a new generation of leaders. interview with the Washington Post

Ive said since day one that I wouldnt vote for Nancy Pelosi as speaker. I think we need a whole new generation of people in D.C. Thats part of why Im running; we need some new blood. interview with the Washington Post

I cannot vote for more of the same, and I cannot support Nancy Pelosi or Paul Ryan to lead Congress. We need fresh faces and bold ideas leading both parties. Medium post

I would not say that I would support her. It would be something that I think we need to look at, and it very well could be that we look at new Democratic leadership and voices. statement to Politico

Im glad to see that Paul Ryan decided not to run for reelection, but in the Democratic party, we have to look at ourselves as well. I wont be supporting Nancy Pelosi for leadership either, because we know that the next 50 years arent going to look like the last 50 years, and we need a new generation of leaders who are going to bring forward fresh ideas as to how we move this country forward. interview with the New Jersey Globe

Throughout my campaign, I have spoken about how people in my district have lost trust in our political process and in both parties. If the Democratic Party is going to earn back the trust of the American people then we need to show them that we are serious about changing our politics  and that means we need a change in leadership. statement to Politico

Its something that I decided early on by talking to voters in the district. I believe its time for new leadership on both sides of the aisle. interview with the Post Standard/Syracuse.com

Will I support Nancy Pelosi for Speaker? The answer is no. Im running for Congress because I genuinely believe we need a new generation of leadership. Washington is broken. Its toxic, and its on both sides. interview with the Cincinnati Enquirer.

I would not support her. Unless we right the ship and realize that politics as usual is part of the problem, were going to keep losing. interview with the Wall Street Journal

Its time for new leadership. Id be looking at whos running and what they bring to the table. interview with the Salt Lake Tribune

Spanberger praised Pelosi but said shed very much like to vote for someone else. interview with RealClearPolitics

If Im elected to Congress, I would not vote for Nancy Pelosi as leader of the Democrats. interview with Fox 6

Nancy Pelosi is an absolute train wreck for the Democratic Party and for working-class families. Ojeda quoted in an op-ed in the Hill. He also told the Atlantics Russell Berman he wouldnt support Pelosi.

And heres a list of the candidates not on the Red to Blue list who have also publicly opposed Pelosis bid for speaker.

When you are not winning, you need to change the coach, change the team members or both. You cant keep doing the same thing and expect different results. interview with the Atlanta Journal-Constitution

Democrats hate trickle-down economics; they should hate trickle-down politics. Scholten added he would not support Pelosi in leadership. Interview with Slate

I look at the leadership  I think we should vote them all out. Nancy Pelosi  vote em all out. interview with Voxs Tara Golshan.

Although this discussion is premature, I would support new leadership in the House. statement to the Dayton Daily News

We need new leadership on the Democratic side of things too. campaign ad

This list will be updated.