President Donald Trump is substantially less popular a year and a half into his presidency than when he initially took office. His popularity in the Midwest has completely deflated. And more people disapprove of him than approve in almost every single swing state that proved crucial to his 2016 victory  except in one: Florida.

Trumps state-by-state approval rating has significantly dropped over the past year and a half. In January 2017 he had a net-positive approval rating in almost every state in the country, except California, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Rhodes Island. Thats far from the case now.

Morning Consult has been tracking Trumps net-approval rating (the percentage of approval minus the percentage of disapproval) since he took office. Heres what the map looked like as of June 2018; the states shaded green are where more people approved than disapproved of Trump, and those tinted red are where more disapproved of the president than approved of him.

As you can see, Trump is currently polling better in Florida than he is in Arizona, Iowa, Ohio, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Utah, Nevada, or North Carolina (all states that proved crucial to his 2016 presidential win).

Compare this, for example, to Trumps approval ratings when he was inaugurated in January 2016. Heres the map from then, from Morning Consult:

The difference is striking  and really important to consider before the 2018 midterm elections. Trump and the presidency may not be on the ballot, but congressional seats, statehouse races, and governorships are, and Democrats have a lot of ground to gain if they want to reshape the countrys power dynamics.

Trumps strength in Florida is bad news for the Democrats this coming fall:They are not only defending a U.S. Senate seat there (Sen. Bill Nelsons reelection bid is contested by Republican Rick Scott, a former governor), but they also hope to pick up several vulnerable Republican-held seats.

In Florida Trumps voter base isnt comprised of the overlooked white working-class voters who figured prominently in postmortems of the 2016 election. As Michael Grunwald wrote for Politico, the economically secure retirement meccas that delivered Trump his presidential victory are giving Republicans hope they can stave off a possible blue wave election in 2018:

This read is consistent with a recent Axios/Survey Monkey poll that indicated Scott had a 3 percentage-point lead over Nelson in Florida. That poll also showed Republican sentiment favored the unseating of Democratic senators being unseated in Indiana and North Dakota, where Trump remains popular.

But its not all bad news for Democrats. Trumps lack of popularity in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and his decreasing popularity in states like Missouri, could prove critical to the Democrats gaining more power in November.

It wont be an easy election for Democrats, but enthusiasm appears to be on their side.