Texas Democratic Senate candidate Beto ORourke is trouncing Republican Sen. Ted Cruz in the fundraising game.

The Democratic representative from Texas who is challenging Cruz in November raised $10.4 million in the second quarter  compared to $4.6 million raised by Cruz in the same time, according to the respective campaigns.

ORourke announced the number during a Facebook Live broadcast on Wednesday night. The progressive candidate has made a pledge to not accept PAC money, a point he highlighted while addressing supporters.

You have made something absolutely extraordinary happen in Texas, ORourke said. Extraordinary because we cant find many other Senate races that have raised this kind of money in a three-month period. We cant find one in Texas, maybe ever, that has done this. And to do it in this way, through small-dollar contributions  thats what democracy looks like.

This haul puts ORourke in a good position going into what will be a closely watched and competitive fall campaign. The Democrat now has more cash on hand than Cruz going into the fall: $14 million compared to $10.4 million. ORourke also broke his own fundraising record of $6.7 million set in the first quarter.

Though Cruzs $4.6 million number was also his personal best, its less than half of what ORourke pulled in. The Democratic candidate has consistently out-raised the Republican incumbent, save for the first quarter after he announced his Senate bid in March of last year, according to the Texas Tribune.

Much of the money came from small, individual donations, ORourke told his supporters. He estimated his campaign received 215,714 individual donations in the second quarter, a marked increase from about 141,000 in the first quarter. ORourke said the average contribution is $33, with about 70 percent of the donations coming from within the state.

The fundraising haul demonstrates how much Democratic enthusiasm there is about ORourkes candidacy. However, he still has huge odds to overcome if he wants to beat Cruz in deep-red Texas.

The latest polling average from RealClearPolitics has Cruz ahead by more than 8 percentage points; in every single poll released from May to July, Cruz has consistently been ahead, although a few polls  including from Quinnipiac University and the University of Texas  have seen the Republicans margin shrinking.

And its worth noting that money doesnt always translate to an automatic win; Hillary Clinton far outraised Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential race but lost the electoral votes needed to win. When all was said and done, the Trump campaign had spent $238.9 million through mid-October 2016, compared to the $450.6 million Clintons campaign spent.

This money will ensure that ORourke has enough resources to blast his message over Texas television screens, airwaves, and social media. The big question is if that will be enough to flip a solidly red Senate seat to blue.