Many people are beginning to ask whether the spate of bombings to hit Austin over the last week were inspired by a recent Netflix series about Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber.

A package containing nails and pieces of metal destined for Austin exploded earlier today at a FedEx facility in a suburb of San Antonio, injuring one person.

The explosion is almost certainly linked to four previous blasts which took place in Austin, which have left two people dead and four injured.

While many are asserting that the attacks are a racist hate crime, despite two of the victims being white, others have pointed to a popular Netflix show called Manhunt: Unabomber as a possible inspiration.

The show tells the story of the FBIs hunt for Ted Kaczynski, a domestic terrorist who was responsible for a wave of bombings, including mail bombings, from 1978 and 1995 that killed three people and injured 23 others.

Kaczynski carried out the attacks to draw attention to his philosophical opposition to modern technology and industrialization.

The Netflix show was popular, receiving a 92% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was originally aired on the Discovery Channel before premiering on Netflix in December.

While the show does offer condemnation of Kaczynskis terrorism from the perspective of his victims, much of the series romanticizes Kaczynskis motives and his character is portrayed somewhat sympathetically throughout.

Many are now asking if the Austin bomber was inspired by Kaczynski and the Netflix show that brought him back to the publics attention.

Who wants to bet that the Austin bomber has been inspired -at least in part- by the Netflix original series, Manhunt? asked one Twitter user.

Is it a coincidence that Manhunt: Unabomber, a show that gave Ted Kaczinskis views a very serious platform and sober analysis aired very recently and now we are seeing a serial bomber in action? wondered Steve Mager.

I wonder if that Austin nut got inspired to be a copycat of the Unabomber after that recent Netflix series?? asked another user.

I find it odd that Austin is facing a serial bomber just 4 months after @ManhuntSeries debuted on @netflix, remarked Carson Gibbs.

So Netflix and a bunch of cable TV channels do their 20 year anniversary shows/mini-series on the Unibomber. And now we have Austin, pondered another user.

Just finished watching Unabomber on Netflix. Seems like it inspired someone, commented Sean Solbak.

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.