CNNs Anderson Cooper dismissed the notion top FBI officials worked to take down President Trump as a massive conspiracy theory during an interview with Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-FL).

Do you believe thats what happened here, that theres some sort of cabal at the top echelon of the FBI? Is that what youre alleging? Cooper asked Gaetz on Monday.

I think we need to look into that question, Gaetz replied, adding the text messages between FBI investigator Peter Strzok and his lover Lisa Page were evidence to that claim.

This is similar to the argument you used to make about a secret society, which was referenced in one of those text messages as well, Cooper said.

Gaetz conceded that a formal incarnation of a secret society may not exist but insisted a very informal cabal within the FBI working to undermine President Trump may have some degree of truth behind it.

There are still messages we havent seen, I think that before drawing those conclusions, we should have a full redaction of the text messages, there are over 1.2 million records the judiciary committee has requested. Weve received about 3,000 of those records. So I think theres a lot more investigating to do and it may very well be that you had an informal cabal functioning in secret with a societal goal of hurting President Trump without any evidence, he said.

That, that sounds like a massive conspiracy theory, Cooper said.

It may have been a massive conspiracy at play, Gaetz retorted. Thats why we want a Special Counsel to look at these things.

Look, when youve got the FBI saying that you, that its wise to go and fire Mr. McCabe, who is one of the senior officials at the FBI, you have got sufficient smoke to believe that there is fire that exists. And thats why were asking the tough questions, its why we want to have an independent review of the activities of the FBI and Department of Justice, in the FISA process, in the Clinton foundation and the Clinton e-mail scandals.

And I think that Mr. McCabes firing validates many of the concerns that Ive raised along with many of my colleagues, he added.