The 2018 midterms begin in earnest on Tuesday, with four primary elections in Ohio, Indiana, West Virginia, and North Carolina.

The candidates for crucial Senate, House, and governors races will be decided. Its a heckuva lot to keep track of. Here is the absolute bare minimum you need to know about every important election on May 8.

Who are the Democrats? Incumbent Sen. Sherrod Brown, who was first elected in 2006. Perennial presidential or vice presidential dark horse.

Who are the Republicans? Rep. Jim Renacci, endorsed by President Trump, and Cleveland businessman Mike Gibbons, who has no political experience and a lot of money.

Whats the story? Brown has a strong in-state brand and is a real progressive whos willing to credit Trump on things like tariffs; Renacci is a stilted speaker and has been hit for his history as a lobbyist, but he does have Trumps support. Gibbons is a bit of a wild card, but Renacci is probably going to win Tuesdays primary and then lose to Brown in November. An Ohio Republican recently predicted to Vox that Brown would win by 8 to 10 points.

Who are the Democrats? Rich Cordray, former head of Obamas Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and Dennis Kucinich, former Congress member and Cleveland mayor. There is a little intra-left family feud here, as Cordray got Elizabeth Warrens endorsement and Kucinich has the support of Our Revolution, the PAC that grew out of Bernie Sanderss 2016 presidential run.

Cordray has used Barack Obama to his advantage during the primary, while Kucinich has hit the frontrunner for being soft on guns in particular while also putting forward a statewide single-payer health care plan. At the same time, he has been forced to fend off questions about his ties to the Assad regime in Syria.

Who are the Republicans? State Attorney General Mike DeWine and Lieutenant Governor Mary Taylor. DeWine is the presumed favorite, a former US senator with the support of most of the state establishment. But Taylor is making the race interesting, hugging as closely as she can to Trump and tarring DeWine as a RINO (Republican in name only) who opposes the president on key issues like trade and immigration. DeWine has been hitting back (calling Taylor lazy, for one thing), which suggests he takes her challenge seriously.

Whats the story? The governors mansion race is wide open since former presidential candidate John Kasich is term-limited out of the job (and maybe even running for president in 2020). Cordray and DeWine are the likely candidates, though the polling is uncertain enough that we cant rule out an upset in either primary. It would be a rematch of the 2010 attorney general race, which DeWine won. This campaign will inevitably be tied to the Senate race  if Brown pulls far ahead, thats a boon for the Democrats chances in a state where Democrats not named Brown have struggled. There is also an FBI corruption probe in Columbus (the state House speaker just resigned) that could complicate things.

Who are the Democrats? Aftab Pureval, who has officially been added to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committees Red to Blue list for districts theyre targeting this year. He has a clear path, so Tuesdays primary probably wont be very interesting. Hes a Hamilton County clerk of courts who beat an entrenched Republican to get that post.

Who is the Republican? Incumbent Rep. Steve Chabot. He was first elected in 2010. Pretty down-the-line conservative  he voted for the tax bill and Obamacare repeal, as all the Ohio Republicans did.

Whats the story? Chabot won by 18 points in 2016, but the Cook Political Report classifies this as only an R+5 district. Pureval is raising money ($660,000) and there have been some weird moments  like trackers being sent to the Democrats house  that suggest Chabot and the GOP are taking the race seriously. If Democrats are going to take the House, they need to win places like this, suburbs outside of a metropolitan area  Cincinnati in this case.

Who are the Democrats? Ken Harbaugh, former president of Team Rubicon, the veterans group that does recovery work after natural disasters like Hurricane Harvey. He was the first Democrat in Ohio to raise $1 million. Hell be fighting Patrick Pikus, who has oddly been the subject of Republican mailers accusing him of being too liberal, for the nomination. Dems think its an effort to prop up Pikus at Harbaughs expense, given that the latter should be a much stronger general election contender in this district.

Who is the Republican? Rep. Bob Gibbs, who was first elected to Congress in 2010. Average Republican.

Whats the story? This district is R+12, and Gibbs won with 64 percent in 2016. Still, Democrats see an opening here as long as Harbaugh takes care of business in the Tuesday primary. Hes running a Country Over Party message for this red district. He could be the next Conor Lamb if things break right.

Who are the Democrats? Well, one is a former Republican, Theresa Gasper. She has some key endorsements, like Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley, and is making the case that its the GOP that moved away from her. Her competitors are Michael Milisits, a union worker running on a populist Bernie Sanders platform, and Robert Klepinger, an area teacher who was the Democratic candidate in 2016 and lost to the Republican incumbent by more than 30 points.

Who is the Republican? Rep. Mike Turner is the incumbent, first elected to Congress in 2002. Hes on the more moderate end of the spectrum. He does have a nominal primary on Tuesday, though he is expected to be fine.

Whats the story? The 10th is theoretically only an R+4 district, but Turner has been winning here with 65 percent of the vote the past few cycles. Cook did slide it over to merely Likely Republican, which suggests it could possibly be in play with a big enough wave. Gasper would have an interesting profile for the moderate district, as an ex-Republican who is catering to the people without a party. Well see if she makes it out of the primary.

Who are the Democrats? There are at least three viable Democrats, as we hear it: Danny OConnor, Franklin County recorder, young and active in the party, raising the most money on the Dem side; Zach Scott, former Franklin County sheriff, known quantity in the district; John Russell, local farmer and progressive activist, has run for (and lost) office before.

Who are the Republicans? Its a classic establishment versus right-wing battle: Troy Balderson, state senator with the endorsement of retiring Rep. Pat Tiberi, versus Melanie Leneghan with the backing of archconservative Rep. Jim Jordan and the House Freedom Caucus. Tim Kane, a former Air Force officer, is also getting a significant airwave boost from a Super PAC that works to elect veterans.

Whats the story? This is actually a special election to replace retiring Tiberi on August 7. So if youre looking for another bellwether of a Democratic wave (or not), this might be the last actual piece of voting evidence we get before Election Day. This is an R+7 district: On the one hand, its well-educated and suburban (possible opportunity for the Democrats). On the other hand, it doesnt have a history of voting for Democrats, voting Republicans into Congress for almost all of the last century. But there are the bones here, particularly with Columbus-area voters, for the anti-Trump vote to carry another surprising Democratic upset. A Leneghan win the GOP primary makes it a lot more interesting, given the comparatively moderate bent of this district.

Who are the Democrats? Betsy Rader, a local attorney with a focus on employment discrimination and whistleblowing. She has a clear path to the nomination.

Who are the Republicans? Rep. Dave Joyce, first elected in 2012. Pretty moderate, as Republicans go.

Whats the story? The primaries arent too interesting, but its worth putting this on your radar now in case of a wave. This is an R+5 district, and Joyce won in 2016 with 60-plus percent of the vote, but this is on the Democratic radar because Sherrod Brown tends to perform well here in the Cleveland suburbs during Senate elections  and Brown, you will recall, is on the ballot this year.

Who are the Democrats? Rick Neal, a former international aid worker who has never run for office before, and Rob Jarvis, a high school government teacher. Jarvis seems a little further to the left, endorsing Medicare-for-all while Neal talks about stabilizing Obamacare first. Neal gets credit from Washington Democrats for training his fire early and often on the incumbent Republican here.

Who are the Republicans? That would be Rep. Steve Stivers, first elected in 2010.

Whats the story? This is an R+7 district where Stivers got two-thirds of the vote in 2016. Still, Cook qualifies it as merely Likely R instead of Solid R in this potentially wave-y year. An added bonus of a competitive race here for Democrats: Stivers has a lot of money ($2.2 million on hand), so the more he has to spend on his own race, the less he can send elsewhere.

Who are the Democrats? Sen. Joe Donnelly. Hes a one-term incumbent Democrat and one of the most vulnerable in 2018, running for reelection in a state Trump won by 19 points.

Who are the Republicans? Theres a heated, and nasty, three-way race between Reps. Todd Rokita and Luke Messer, and businessman and former state lawmaker Mike Braun. Its been a mudslinging race to out-Trump one another, but Trump has stayed away from endorsing anyone.

Whats the story? The Republican primary has already been dubbed one of the nastiest  and most expensive  in the 2018 election cycle, so much so that regardless of which Republican wins, he wont come out unscathed. The primary has moved the Republicans far to the right and has been pretty void of policy. Its giving Donnelly some hope, but Indiana is still a strong Trump state (and Vice President Mike Pences home state) and one of the biggest opportunities for Republicans this year.

Who are the Democrats? There are six Democrats vying for the chance to turn the district blue in November. Three have stood out: Mel Hall, a pastor turned CEO of a health care survey company with a more moderate policy platform, who has the support of some national Democrats; Pat Hackett, an attorney with a specialty in health care, estate, and probate law, who is openly gay and running on a progressive message; and Yatish Joshi, a manufacturing businessman and Indian-born immigrant who is also running on a progressive message. Hall has raised the most money of the three, followed by Joshi and then Hackett.

Who are the Republicans? Rep. Jackie Walorski. Shes a three-term Congress member running for reelection. Shes already outraised the Democratic candidates and has a pretty coveted position on the powerful House Ways and Means Committee in Congress. She has a primary challenger, Mark Summe, a chemical engineering graduate student who seems to have almost no campaign presence.

Whats the story? This was Donnellys district. But when he left for the Senate, Indianas Second District, which covers South Bend, the central-north region of the state, has turned increasingly red. Trump won the district by 23 points, and it was rated R+10 after a bout of Republican-led redistricting efforts in 2011. But it looks a lot like Pennsylvanias 18th, which Democrat Conor Lamb won in a special election last month, and Democrats are painting Walorski as an out-of-touch Republican who has failed the district.

Still, the primary has shown some divisions among Democratic ranks. Hall is the candidate with the clearest establishment support. A self-proclaimed pragmatist, he supports stabilizing Obamacare and refinancing student debt, while Joshi and Hackett are running on a Medicare-for-all, free-college platform. Where Joshi and Hackett support an assault weapons ban, Hall stops short. The question before voters is which vision can secure a win in a solidly red district.

Who are the Democrats? Three Democrats are in this race: Liz Watson, a labor attorney and former adviser to congressional Democrats, who has raised the most in this race; Dan Canon, a prominent civil rights lawyer in Louisville (he helped win the Kentucky same-sex marriage case) based in New Albany, Indiana; and Rob Chatlos, an independent-running-Democrat truck driver, who is not raising money and has reported no contributions.

Who are the Republicans? Rep. Trey Hollingsworth III, a one-term representative and native Tennesseean who moved to Indiana in September 2015 a month before declaring his candidacy in the district. Hes being challenged by James Dean Alspach, who hasnt mounted a serious campaign.

Whats the story? This is one of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committees targets in 2018. The south-central district between Louisville and Indianapolis has flipped between Democratic and Republican control in recent history. Hollingsworth won the district when now-Sen. Todd Young left the seat open. But his history in the region is short, and Democrats hope the energy in their voter base this year can turn the district blue once more.

Who are the Democrats? Joe Manchin, elected to the Senate in 2010. He was governor and secretary of state before that. Hes pretty moderate or even conservative by Democratic standards, though he voted against Obamacare repeal and the Republican tax bill. He does technically have a primary challenger, progressive Paula Jean Swearengin. She is unlikely to win, but if Swearengin has a strong showing, it could reflect underwhelming base support for the senator.

Who are the Republicans? Oh, boy. Its quite something. The conventional candidates are Rep. Evan Jenkins and Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, the establishment favorite and the supposed outsider, respectively. But the whole race was upended when Don Blankenship, a former coal baron who ran a company found to be violating federal safety regulations when a mining accident killed 29 people, entered the race.

For the most part, polling has Jenkins and Morrisey neck and neck for the lead, but Blankenship is lurking and a lot of voters are undecided.

Whats the story? Manchin has a strong history with the state, though his brand of centrism might risk alienating actual progressives in the year of the Resistance. Blankenship is the lightning rod of the race: Washington Republicans are trying to stop him, worried his nomination would put a gettable seat out of reach, while Washington Democrats seem to be propping him up. Blankenship has launched a scorched-earth campaign against Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell. Things have gotten very weird.

Who are the Democrats? The star is state Sen. Richard Ojeda, who got the Politico magazine treatment with this headline: Hes JFK With Tattoos and a Bench Press. Hes a former paratrooper and was a marquee supporter of the West Virginia teachers strike this year. He technically still has a primary to win, which includes state legislator Shirley Love, but read that Politico piece for a sense of the enthusiasm about this guy.

Who are the Republicans? Former chair of the state Republican Party Conrad Lucas and state delegate Carol Miller are the headliners. It looks competitive: The pair has split endorsements between various state politicians and the anti-abortion Susan B. Anthony List, which endorsed Miller.

Whats the story? This is the district Jenkins is leaving to run for Senate. Its an R+23 district, which, woof, but Cook still tabs it as just Likely R, which may be a function of the GOP losing its incumbent advantage here during a Democratic wave year and the Ojeda X-factor. The Democrat touted his internal polling in that national profile, showing him with an alleged lead among Republican voters against Lucas. Who knows how much of it is bluster, but maybe Ojeda can engineer a one-man blue wave, as Politico put it.

Who are the Democrats? There are two Democrats running in what has become a competitive primary: Linda Coleman, a former state lawmaker, and Ken Romley, an entrepreneur in the technology sector.

Who are the Republicans? Incumbent Rep. George Holding, a former prosecutor whose family owns First Citizens Bank & Trust, has been in office since 2013 and is defending his seat.

Whats the story? North Carolinas Second District isnt one Democrats would typically be expected to do well in; in the center of the state, including the suburbs around Raleigh, its predominantly white and has an R+7 Cooks rating. But in 2016, Holdings margin of victory was smaller than that of most incumbent Republicans in North Carolina; he only defeated the Democratic first-time candidate with 57 percent of the vote. And weak approval ratings for Trump and an energized base have Democrats thinking they could flip the suburban district.

Who are the Democrats? The favorite is Dan McCready, a Marine Corps veteran and solar energy entrepreneur who has been compared to Pennsylvanias Conor Lamb. Hes running against Christian Cano, who calls himself a 20 year veteran of the Hospitality industry. Ironically, Cano made the most headlines after calling McCready a coward and a pussy, for which the states Democratic Party demanded he apologize. He did.

Who are the Republicans? Incumbent Republican Rep. Robert Pittenger, a real estate investor who has served the district since 2013, is facing a primary challenge from Mark Harris, a former senior pastor of Charlottes First Baptist Church and former president of the North Carolina Baptist Convention. Harris, who challenged Pittenger in 2016, was a leader in the successful 2012 push to pass a state constitutional amendment reaffirming North Carolinas same-sex marriage ban (which was rendered moot by the US Supreme Court decision).

Whats the story? The district, a heavily suburban area around Charlotte, has been gerrymandered so that Democrats havent been competitive in recent elections. But a combination of the current political climate and a Republican primary that has moved the candidates to the right has shifted the districts Cooks rating from Likely Republican to Lean Republican, making it one of the few districts Democrats think they could flip in the state.

Who are the Democrats? The favorite is Kathy Manning, a philanthropist, former immigration lawyer, and major Democratic donor. Shes running on jobs and affordable health care and has already picked up the Emilys List endorsement and the support of North Carolina Democratic lawmakers. Adam Coker, a small-business owner, is also running.

Who are the Republicans? The incumbent is Rep. Ted Budd, a first-term Congress member and former gun store owner who secured his seat in 2016 after winning a 17-way Republican primary.

Whats the story? Another suburban district here. This is the area around Greensboro and north of Charlotte. It went for Trump pretty easily in 2016, but early on, the districts rating went from Solid Republican to Likely Republican. There are 10 college campuses close by, and the district also has a significant African-American population. So far, Budd has had a lot of fundraising challenges and has some major national PACs behind him. Even so, Manning outraised him threefold over the first three months of 2018.