Donald Trump has spent his presidency threatening to pull the US out of its historic nuclear agreement with Iran. On Tuesday afternoon, hell finally tell the world what hes decided.

Trump is set to announce his decision about the future of the nuclear agreement at the White House at 2 pm Tuesday. The deal between Iran and the so-called P5+1 (the United States, Britain, France, Russia, China, and Germany) puts tight restrictions on Irans nuclear program in exchange for the relaxation of some punishing international sanctions on the country.

The president technically has until May 12 to make his call about whether to put the sanctions on Iran back into place, and the plans for the Tuesday afternoon announcement caught many observers off guard.

The big question is what Trump will actually say. He has attacked the agreement for years, arguing that Iran cant be trusted and saying that the deal merely postpones the day when Tehran obtains a nuke. But many of his closest Republican allies are now begging him to stay in the deal and instead work with Europe to make the agreement tougher on Iran.

The deals supporters note the United Nations nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, has repeatedly certified that Iran is honoring its part of the deal. A succession of European leaders, from French President Emmanuel Macron to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, have visited Washington in recent weeks to personally lobby Trump to stay in the pact.

However, most observers expect Trump to ignore those entreaties and pull the US out of the deal anyway. That wouldnt kill the pact  close US allies could reimpose their own sanctions if Tehran used the US move as a pretense to pull itself out of the agreement  but a US withdrawal would significantly weaken the overall strength of the deal.

The one certainty is that after months of suspense, Washington, and the world, will finally get Trumps decision about the deals fate Tuesday afternoon at the White House.

When: Tuesday, May 8. Trump is expected to begin speaking around 2 pm Eastern time.

Where: The speech will likely air on all major news networks, and the White House will stream it on its YouTube channel.