Current and former FBI agents are furious after former Director James Comey gave his first interview since President Trump fired him last year to ABCs George Stephanopoulos on Sunday night, reports the Daily Beast  which was privy to a play-by-play flurry of text messages and other communications detailing their reactions.

Seven current or former FBI agents and officials spoke throughout and immediately after the broadcast. There was a lot of anger, frustration, and even more emojisfeaturing the thumbs-down, frowny face, middle finger, and a whole lot of green vomit faces. One former FBI official sent a bourbon emoji as it began; another sent the beers cheers-ing emoji. The responses became increasingly angry and despondent as the hourlong interview played out. Daily Beast

Hoover is spinning in his grave, said a former FBI official. Making money from total failure, in reference to Comey plugging his book, A Higher Loyalty.

Jana Winter of The Beast adds that when a promo aired between segments advertising Comeys upcoming appearance with The View, the official grew angrier.

Good lord, what a self-serving self-centered jackass, the official said. True to form he thinks hes the smartest guy around.

A current official with the FBI said it was strange how Comey seemed so pleased with how things played out. Its how happy he looked on TV while cashing in on the biggest mistake in history. His mistake, they said. Jim Comey made that mistake. We all just wonder what could have been and what we couldve done to change it.

Not all the current and former FBI officials had problems with the interview, however  as one official who spoke out in support of Comey said I thought he was highly trustworthy and very transparent, like watching someone in confession, the former official said. It seems like hes still wrestling with it.

The majority, however, were all negative on the former Directors interview  with one even souring as the interview progressed:

Sources confirm to ZeroHedge that a frowny face emoji is indeed very bad. In a stunning development, Comeys interview even encouraged a former FBI official to start using emojis.

Another source who works frequently with the FBI said they wouldnt watch the extended cut of the interview.

Didnt watch itI dont care, hes basically a scumbag. I dont know how theyre letting him write a book in the middle of an investigation that hes part of. I wonder if he had his book cleared by the intelligence community? Hes supposed to but I bet he didnt.

Comey was fired by President Trump on May 9, 2017, after which he leaked memos he claims document conversations with Trump to the New York Times, kicking off the special counsel investigation headed by Robert Mueller  whose team started out looking at Russian influence in the 2016 election, and is now investigating the Presidents alleged decade-old extramarital affairs with at least two women. Truly looking out for national security there Bob...

Hillary Clinton and her supporters blame Comey as a major factor in her 2016 loss to Donald Trump  as Clinton insiders have told the Daily Beast that Comey should beg for forgiveness and not try to use his book to explain away his actions.

Days before the election, Comey publicly announced that he was reopening the investigation into Clintons use of a private email server, but he made no mention of the simultaneous inquires being made into Russian links to members of Trumps team. This was seen by many inside the FBI as Comey inserting the agency into the campaign, which was especially unwise coming so close to the election, when the agency tries to abstain from anything that could have political consequences. Daily Beast

In his book, Comey  who said he was on the verge of tears after Obama gave him a pat on the head, and whose wife and children were admittedly giant Hillary fans, also admits that he expected Clinton to win, and that he feared that  if he didnt disclose the reopening of the probe  that it would make Clinton an illegitimate president.

Mr. Comey acknowledges that he thought Mrs. Clinton would win the presidency and said it is entirely possible that he decided to reveal that the email investigation had started up again 11 days before the election because he was primarily concerned that if he concealed the renewed investigation, it would make her an illegitimate president. Would he have made a different decision if Mr. Trump had been ahead in the polls? I dont know, Mr. Comey concedes. AP

Prior to becoming the DNCs most wanted, Comey and his team notoriously let Hillary Clinton off the hook for her private server and mishandling of classified information  having begun drafting Clintons exoneration before even interviewing her, something which appears to have been forgotten in his book.

Comey also called out Obama and Lynch in his book  defending the FBIs top brass and counterintelligence investigators charged with probing Clintons use of a private email server and mishandling of classified information, reports the Washington Examiner, which received an advanced copy.

I never heard anyone on our team  not one  take a position that seemed driven by their personal political motivations. And more than that: I never heard an argument or observation I thought came from a political bias. Never ... Instead we debated, argued, listened, reflected, agonized, played devils advocate, and even found opportunities to laugh as we hashed out major decisions.

Were sure there was a lot of laughing in Comeys office  right up until 1AM on November 9, 2016.

It appears that James Comey isnt making any friends, anywhere  except perhaps at his bank.