The swift downfall of New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has rattled state politics and left New Yorks top law enforcement job wide open months before the 2018 election.

Schneiderman submitted his formal resignation Tuesday, less than 24 hours after the New Yorker reported that four women have said Schneiderman physically abused them.

New York Solicitor General Barbara Underwood will take over as acting attorney general, inheriting a slew of high-profile cases including challenges to the Trump administrations agenda and a lawsuit against Harvey Weinstein and his company.

Underwood is the first woman to hold the job of New York attorney general, a statistic that seems even more astounding in the wake of allegations against Schneiderman. Schneiderman, in his public and political life, ran as a champion of women and, more recently, of #MeToo. The accusations that he slapped, choked, and threatened women transformed him from a hero of the movement into, as Voxs Anna North wrote, its biggest betrayal.

An obvious, if imperfect, antidote is appointing or electing a woman to succeed Schneiderman. The New York state legislature can leave Underwood in place or select another interim AG until a new one is elected. Lawmakers have initiated steps to pick someone new, but potential candidates are declining to participate because of the appearance that the decision is more insider politics than democratic process.

New York voters will ultimately have the chance to choose a new attorney general in November. Whom that might be is anybodys guess. The list of potential or rumored candidates continues to grow. After all, the New York AG is the second most important political statewide office and now, more than ever, offers a chance to build a national profile as one of Trumps chief antagonizers.

Underwood was sworn in as the attorney general on Tuesday. She is an incredibly well-credentialed attorney with extensive litigation experience, more than equipped to take over the offices public caseload. Shell have that job until a new attorney general is elected in November 2018 and sworn in  unless the New York legislature appoints someone else before then.

Craig Burnett, a professor of political science at Hofstra University, said Underwood is exactly the type of person that, if you lose an attorney general, you hope is following right behind. But that might not be enough to convince the legislature.

Its a precarious time to be New Yorks attorney general, Burnett said Wednesday, because the states top law enforcement official is seen as being a counter to the current White House administration. Theres some political impetus there, he added.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo has hinted that Underwood  who told the New York Daily News shes not interested in running for AG in the fall, but would be happy to serve until the end of the year  should stay on. I dont think theres any rush to replace the vacancy, the governor said Friday. I think the office is in very capable hands. How many times do you want to disrupt that office?

Underwood said she submitted her name to the legislature, but its looking as if lawmakers want to intervene and make their own interim AG appointment rather than leave her in place.

New York Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie (D-Bronx), who will help steer the selection as the leader of the overwhelmingly Democratic lower chamber, asked interested candidates to submit resumes and covers letters by Friday, May 11. A bipartisan committee made up of members of the state Senate and Assembly will conduct interviews May 15 and 16, if necessary.

Whoever the legislature selects will definitely be a Democrat  and thats about the only guarantee. He or she also may become the automatic frontrunner for the position, gaining an incumbency advantage for both the primary and potentially the general election in November 2018.

But being the chosen attorney general of New York lawmakers could also backfire in a primary or general election. Any business in Albany tends to carry the whiff of backroom dealing. Some whove been floated as candidates for the job of attorney general  including New York City public advocate Letitia James and Zephyr Teachout  have said they wont submit their names to the legislature for consideration. But James, and others, havent publicly ruled out running for the office.

For those who want to be elected attorney general, the filing deadline is July 12, The Democratic Party can also nominate candidates at the state convention at the end of May. Democratic leaders can nominate up to four candidates to run for attorney general, according to Newsday. That doesnt prevent others from running in the primary if they secure enough signatures and meet the filing deadline.

So New York will get a new attorney general, possibly one appointed by the legislature and another after an election in November. The list of potential replacements is long, but a few potential frontrunners have emerged.

The clamor to appoint a woman is also intensifying, and New York political observers tend to agree thats probably what the state legislature is leaning toward  and maybe the state electorate too.

Theres just been so many scandals out of Albany. And when I say scandals, I mean political, financial, and sexual in nature, and of the many, many New York politicos whove gone to prison or lost their jobs, almost all have been men, Christina Greer, a professor of political science at Fordham University, told me. So I do think were in a moment right now where we see that the political winds blowing into at least lets try something for a change.

I think people are saying it feels like women, in terms of all the obstacles it takes to get elected, they get in and do their job without all this other dark baggage that we consistently see with these male politicians, Greer added.

And a few womens names have cropped up as likely contenders  but many of the top names seemed to have soured on the idea of letting Albany legislators getting involved. Letitia James had reportedly been trying to line up votes in the Assembly. But on Friday, James said she would not go through the process with the legislature and teased a possible announcement about the office next week.

James has hinted shes interested in higher office, though that had reportedly been a 2021 mayoral run. She likely lacks name recognition outside of New York City, but she would be the first African-American woman to serve as New York attorney general. In her Friday tweet, and in a statement Wednesday, she certainly seemed open to a run: The state legislature is carrying on a process to elect a temporary replacement. I am honored by the encouragement and support I have received and am considering the best ways to continue serving New York.

Democratic Rep. Kathleen Rice is also emerging as an early frontrunner and is reportedly serious about a run. The former Nassau County district attorney narrowly lost to Schneiderman in the Democratic primaries in 2010.

Zephyr Teachout, a law professor and progressive who lost a gubernatorial challenge against Andrew Cuomo in 2014 and a House race in 2016, has publicly expressed interest in running. Shes currently working for Cynthia Nixons gubernatorial campaign.

But on Thursday, Teachout, too, said she wouldnt participate in the legislatures attorney general job search, but is still considering a run. She endorsed Underwood to complete the remainder of the term and urged other potential candidates to do the same.

Other women have been floated as possible candidates, a diverse set that includes Carrie H. Cohen, a former federal prosecutor who led the first corruption trial of former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver; Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul (though her name had also been floated as potential House candidate in New Yorks 27th District); Leecia Eve, a lawyer who worked for Cuomo and Hillary Clinton and ran for lieutenant governor in 2006; and New York City Deputy Mayor Alicia Glen.

Other serious candidates include state Sen. Michael Gianaris, a Democrat from Queens, who had been eyeing the attorney general seat after Schneidermans tenure and has funds on hand for a statewide campaign, according to Politico New York.

He, too, said he wouldnt participate in the legislatures interview process but is still mulling a run. In the coming days and weeks, I will continue speaking with my supporters and other interested New Yorkers as I decide whether to seek election to the Attorney Generals office this year, he said in a statement.

Assembly member Daniel ODonnell, a Democrat who represents Manhattan, is another potential pick. ODonnell, who was the first openly gay member of the Assembly, has been a longtime advocate for LGBTQ rights in the state. I think my history here fighting for important pieces of progressive legislation, and my long career as an attorney primarily representing the people, would be a perfect match, he said, according to Politico New York.

Democratic Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney may also be thinking about a run, according to Roll Call. Then theres Preet Bharara, the former star US attorney for the Southern District of New York and current podcaster.

Bharara has previously said he wasnt interested in running for office, though hed be a popular choice among voters who see him as a crusader against Trump  particularly if the New York attorney generals office investigates Trump aides in parallel with special counsel Robert Muellers office to bring state charges as a deterrence to presidential pardons.

Bharara told CNN on Tuesday that talk of a run was flattering, but other people have put the thought out there. Im not putting it out there. And Im happy doing what Im doing now.

Bharara, who spent his tenure as US attorney going after corrupt lawmakers, probably had no chance of being appointed attorney general by the legislature, but on his podcast released Thursday he said  you guessed it  that he would not seek the appointment of the legislature because it had the look and feel of a backroom deal.

Yet he didnt completely dismiss the idea of becoming a candidate, saying, despite his antipathy for politics, he recognized the importance of the job. The question about what Ill do with respect to the election in November, thats for another day, he said.

More names may emerge  or more likely fade out  as the Assembly gets closer to making its decision. Heastie has said diversity does matter in the attorney general pick but hasnt given any other clues as to who the legislature might select.

A few Republicans are also jumping into a race. Manny Alicandro, a Manhattan attorney, announced his candidacy before the New Yorker story broke on Monday. Schneidermans resignation prompted one more candidate, Rockland County attorney Thomas Humbach, to jump into the contest.

Greer said that Republicans might have reevaluated their odds in the wake of the allegations against Schneiderman, but the climate in 2018 still isnt favorable for the GOP. This isnt an election year in which Republicans can easily run on Democrats misdeeds, particularly when President Trump is still in the White House.