President Donald Trumps administration may be moving away from its war on marijuana.

In January, Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded an Obama-era memo that effectively protected states that had legalized marijuana from federal intervention. Since marijuana remains illegal at the federal level for any purpose, the Obama memo signaled to states that they could proceed with reforms without the constant threat of the feds raiding state-legal businesses. Sessionss move, however, revived the possibility of federal intervention, telling prosecutors that they could crack down on marijuana even if its legal under state law.

On Friday, however, Trump indicated that hes not interested in a new war on pot. According to Seung Min Kim at the Washington Post, Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO), whose state was the first to allow recreational marijuana sales, said that Trump had told him Sessionss move would not affect Colorados marijuana industry  and in fact indicated that he would support a law to allow state legalization experiments to continue.

Late Wednesday, I received a commitment from the President that the Department of Justices rescission of the Cole memo will not impact Colorados legal marijuana industry, Gardner said. Furthermore, President Trump has assured me that he will support a federalism-based legislative solution to fix this states rights issue once and for all.

Gardner had previously threatened to block Justice Department nominations until he got these kinds of assurances from the Trump administration. With the White Houses shift, hes now dropping the threat.

A big open question: Its unclear how the Justice Department and the federal prosecutors it oversees will react to the deal. Since marijuana remains totally illegal under federal law, prosecutors and other federal law enforcement officials could still pursue cases against marijuana shops and cultivators  although theyd now have to do it despite opposition from the White House.

So far, Justice Department officials have declined to comment  raising real questions about whether the Trump-Gardner deal will hold up in reality.

Its not unusual for Trump to make promises that he doesnt or cant keep. For one, he said on the campaign trail that he would like to leave marijuana legalization to the states  but once he was in office, Sessions rescinded the Obama-era memo even though it did exactly what Trump promised.

This has led to some skeptical responses to the Trump-Gardner deal.

After reports of the deal, for instance, Washington state Attorney General Bob Ferguson released a cautious statement: I understand President Trump has offered his support for states to have the right to regulate marijuana and for legislation to enshrine this right in law. I am cautiously optimistic that the president appears to have heard the will of the people on this issue. But this president has demonstrated a willingness to go back on his word. Until there is a formal agreement protecting Washingtons well-regulated marijuana industry, I will continue to stand ready to defend it.

Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) echoed the sentiment, tweeting, Commitments mean little from President Trump. The only way to truly protect states that have legalized marijuana is for Congress to act.

If the Trump administration does ultimately back down, the biggest reason may be that its anti-marijuana efforts were always politically risky.

For one, Sessionss policy allowed federal law enforcement to go against the will of the voters. Eight of the nine states that have legalized marijuana so far have done so through ballot initiatives with voter support. The federal government would be effectively rejecting those votes by going after legal pot in those states  and voters could take offense to that.

More broadly, marijuana legalization is fairly popular at the national level. Gallups latest survey in 2017 found that 64 percent of US adults back legalization, up from 36 percent more than a decade before. Gallup even found that a majority of Republicans now support legalization. (One caveat: Anti-legalization advocates argue that if surveys offered options between decriminalization, medical legalization, and recreational legalization, voters would be much less likely to say that they back full legalization.)

So a crackdown on legal marijuana stands in contrast to public opinion, including that of a majority of Republicans.

This kind of polling empowered a political backlash to the rescission of the Obama-era memo. So Democratic lawmakers like Booker and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) pushed against the move, but Republican legislators like Gardner and Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) did too.

That backlash seems to have been enough to get Trump to commit, at least verbally, to allowing marijuana legalization to continue at the state level. The question is what happens next.

For more on marijuana legalization, read Voxs explainer.