It wont be smooth sailing for Mitt Romneys 2018 Senate campaign in Utah. The former Massachusetts governor and Republican presidential candidate was narrowly defeated in the states right-leaning GOP convention on Saturday. He remains the heavy favorite but will have to take part in the states Republican primary in June.

Romney lost to state Rep. Mike Kennedy in two rounds of voting among delegates at the Utah Republican Partys state convention in West Valley City, Utah, on Saturday. According to the Associated Press, Kennedy got 51 percent of the vote while Romney took home 49 percent.

They will head to a primary election on June 26 because neither candidate passed the 60 percent delegate threshold required to bypass it. (Its worth noting that Romney had already qualified for the primary because he gathered 28,000 voter signatures  the only candidate in this race to have done so.)

In a tweet, Romney thanked the delegates who hung in there with us all day and said he looks forward to the primary election. He is seeking to replace Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), who plans to retire this year.

That Romney gathered signatures to get onto the primary ballot is actually a point of contention among Utah Republicans. Conservative delegates see signature gathering to make the ballot as a measure that dilutes their power, and according to the Associated Press, the issue prompted hours of debate, shouting, and booing on Saturday.

Frankly, given the fact that I collected signatures and the delegates dont like people who collect signatures, Im delighted with the outcome, Romney told local outlet KSL.

He wouldnt say whether he thought delegates were punishing him by sending him to a primary. I cant possibly imagine that Im speaking for the minds of the delegates, but I know that there were many people that were not enthusiastic about someone who gathered signatures, he said.

Romney was one of a dozen candidates seeking the Republican Partys nomination for the US Senate and is still the frontrunner despite Saturdays setback. Mitt Romney is royalty here in the state of Utah, Utahs Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox recently told Voxs Tara Golshan. And I can tell you the polling numbers weve seen over the past two years, hes still the most popular politician in the state of Utah.

Romney was a prominent voice of opposition to Donald Trump during the 2016 presidential election. He conjectured that Trump was hiding a bombshell of unusual size in his tax returns and called him both a phony and a fraud. He said Trumps admiration of Russian President Vladimir Putin while calling former President George W. Bush a liar was a twisted example of evil Trumping good.

But since announcing his Senate candidacy, hes softened his tone in an attempt to woo conservative voters  even though Trump isnt particularly popular in Utah. During the 2016 campaign, Romney said he would not have accepted Trumps endorsement for his 2012 presidential bid given his racist and offensive comments. In February, however, he happily accepted the presidents Senate endorsement.

In March Romney said he is actually more conservative than the president on immigration and believes those protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) shouldnt be allowed to stay in the United States legally.

In an interview with CNN on Saturday, Romney said hes not sure yet if hes going to support Trumps 2020 campaign. As a person of political experience, if I endorse someone Ill want to know whats in it for Utah and what help would he provide for us on key priorities in Utah, he said. Im not a cheap date.