First they marched, now theyre running. And winning too.

Female candidates dominated in the first multi-state Democratic congressional primaries of the 2018 midterms. Out of 20 open primaries with women on the ballot on Tuesday night, voters selected a female nominee in 17 of them.

The development is only fitting after women orchestrated the opening salvo of the national post-Trump resistance, bringing tens of millions into the streets the day after the inauguration for the Womens March. In the aftermath there has been a deluge of women intent on channeling that energy into political candidacy. Emilys List, a womens candidacy advocacy group reported a more than 20-fold increase in inquiries from women interested in running after Trumps election.

According to Politicos Women Rule candidate tracker, 599 women nationwide have run or have said theyll run for US House, Senate or governor in 2018. Of the more than 100 who have already stood for primaries this year, 56% have won so far.

Women currently occupy just 20% of seats in Congress despite making up half of the US population.

Most of the winning Democratic candidates from Tuesday are facing an uphill climb in the November general elections, as nearly all are in districts that Republicans are heavily favored to win, but its still representative of a shifting candidacy landscape. A number of women also stood for Republican nominations on Tuesday but they did not fare as well as Democratic women, winning less than half the seats they competed for.

House races arent the only places women are making huge imprints on the ballot. In Georgias 22 May gubernatorial primary, voters will be choosing between one of two Democratic Staceys  Stacey Evans and Stacey Abrams. Either would be the first female executive in the states history, and despite the fact that the state hasnt elected a Democrat to the office since 1998, polling suggest the race could be very competitive.

The Senate confirmation hearing for CIA director nominee, Gina Haspel, was interrupted multiple times by demonstrators upset about her connection to the torture of foreign detainees. A 33-year veteran of the agency, Haspel ran a secret detention centre in Thailand in 2002 where inmates were tortured. In 2005, she drafted an order calling for the destruction of nearly 100 videotapes of interrogation sessions.

Bloody Gina! Bloody Gina! Bloody Gina! You are a torturer, one protester yelled before being escorted by Capitol police. Another group of Code Pink activists were removed before the proceedings began, and several were dragged out by authorities as they yelled about torture.

One of the protesters removed from the chamber was Ray McGovern, a former CIA operative turned activist who has been highly visible in criticizing the agency, especially on torture, since the mid 1990s.

Haspel has pledged not to bring back any such torture program if confirmed.

I can offer you my personal commitment, clearly and without reservation, that under my leadership, on my watch, the CIA will not restart a detention and interrogation program, Haspel said.