Rapper, designer, and self-proclaimed avatar of dragon energy Kanye West caused controversy yesterday when he told the entertainment site TMZ that American slavery was a choice.

When you hear about slavery for 400 years ... for 400 years? he said. That sounds like a choice.

He later doubled down in a perplexing tweetstorm that included, among other things, an apocryphal quote likely falsely attributed to Harriet Tubman implying that enslaved people did not know they were slaves.

Now, its possible to attribute Wests latest pivot to conservative talking points to many factors. He may have genuinely become a neoreactionary. He may have (correctly) surmised that saying something patently ridiculous on the dawn of his latest albums release is a surefire way to get free press. (In which case: sorry.)

But the particular narrative that West is espousing here is worth discussing  not because its true (it isnt) but because its pervasiveness tells us something about the means by which two distinctly American myths have become intertwined. Wests contention that slavery was a choice represents the intersection of decades worth of revisionist Civil War history with the bootstrap narrative of personal responsibility embedded in American culture. Wests latest viral message, in other words, is the culmination of tropes far older than he.

The first cultural trope West is embracing here is that of the happy slave: the enslaved person whose situation is, if not consensual, then nonetheless not really that bad. Its a narrative we can find in fiction everywhere from Gone With the Wind to Song of the South. But, insidiously, this narrative isnt limited to fiction. Generations of high school textbooks have elided the scale, scope, and significance of slavery, recharacterizing the Civil War as an internecine squabble over states rights rather than a war over the right to own slaves. (For an extensive discussion on why the Civil War was not, in fact, about states rights, check out Emily Badgers excellent piece at the Pacific Standard.)

These textbooks  and parallel interpretations of history  often cleave along neat regional partisan lines, in part because school boards make curricular decisions at the state level.

In Texas in 2015, for example, a social studies textbook used in public schools made headlines when it informed students, The Atlantic Slave Trade between the 1500s and 1800s brought millions of workers from Africa to the southern United States to work on agricultural plantations, implying that enslaved people were workers traveling of their own volition. (The publisher, McGraw Hill, later apologized and said future printings would be corrected, offering a corrective sticker or reprint to anyone who requested it outright.) In 2018, another school, this time in Wisconsin, made headlines for assigning students to come up with good reasons for slavery.

In 2010, another Texas school board found itself divided over how best to teach the Civil War, with board Republicans leading a successful campaign to downplay the influence of slavery (as opposed to states rights) in inciting the conflict.

In practice, this means that the brutality and reach of slavery tends to be both underemphasized and undertaught in American public schools. A 2018 study by the Southern Poverty Law Centers Teaching Tolerance project found that Civil War literacy among high school students was catastrophically low. Just 8 percent of high school seniors said slavery was the central cause of the Civil War. Only 44 percent knew that slavery was legal in all colonies during the American Revolution, and fewer than half knew that a constitutional amendment had formally ended slavery.

While the SPLC can be controversial (its been accused of being overly zealous in its classification of hate groups), its fair to say that the study accurately reflects the way the Civil War narrative is taught in American public schools.

Wests comments about slavery being a choice, therefore, need to be contextualized in a wider matrix: the idea that slavery was not that bad or that significant, and that its brutality was not sufficient in scale to, say, launch a catastrophic war. It is an idea that is embedded in parts of the American educational system at an institutional level and actively promulgated by state officials.

But Wests comments need to be viewed in another light too. His insistence that slavery is a choice needs to be understood in the context that for so much of American cultural history, everything is seen as a choice. The capitalist, individualist narrative of personal responsibility as a defining feature of the American cultural ethos is one that underpins nearly every American cultural institution.

Economically, we can see it in the ideology of pulling yourself up by your bootstraps celebrated in everything from the 19th-century novels of Horatio Alger to GOP talking points. Religiously, we can see it in distinctively American crazes like the Victorian eras New Thought and the popularity of the Christian prosperity gospel, which implies that your piety directly impacts your pocketbook. Its the ideology that underpins our Gwyneth Paltrow-inspired fantasies of wellness, our obsessive gym culture, and capitalist empowerment complexes like the skin care industry. Physically, spiritually, socially, we are  as a nation  fantasists of control.

Its a trope that is also fiercely individualistic. It has little time for, say, structural inequality, or any -ism that might encroach on the total autonomy of a self that wants to, well, self-improve.

And so when racism and American individualism intersect, you get a particularly potent combination of cultural influences. The quintessentially American tendency to elide the severity of this countrys bloody racial history and the no less American tendency to emphasize personal agency over structural barriers results in a highly potent cocktail of cultural historicism.

Its how we get what you might call the Bill Cosby school of bootstrap race relations in which, to quote Cosbys infamous Pound Cake speech, racism is the result of black people doing stupid things. Its how we get Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson referring to enslaved Africans as immigrants in the hope of a better life. Its how we get Education Secretary Betsy DeVos praising historically black colleges and universities as a paradigmatic example of free choice  as if all that was standing between a young black boy and Harvard in 1867 was his personal inclination.

West has always embraced the mythos of individualism  when it comes to himself, at any rate, whether hes talking about the dragon energy that he says fuels both him and Donald Trump or referring to himself (repeatedly) as a genius or the greatest artist of all time. His effectiveness as a public figure (like that of many self-proclaimed great artists) rests squarely on the mythos of singularity: He is not just above, say, bourgeois norms or manners but also above any structural issues like, say, racism.

To allow an ethic of solidarity would be, in Wests ethic, to admit weakness. His worldview is binary: There are dragons (like West and Trump), and there are non-dragons. If West has made himself into a dragon, metaphorically speaking, it must be entirely because of his merit or genius. And that merit-based worldview does not allow for significant equality of opportunity.

Thats not to excuse or explain away anything West has said. Rather, its to argue that Wests controversy and his celebrity come from the exact same place: His persona is a public caricature designed to channel and capitalize on the very cultural forces that form the foundation of his worldview.

And, whether or not we want to admit it, ours.